---
title: "1.19"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-19/
description: "Release notes for version 1.19 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 60
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.19.

## 1.19.1

### Release date: March 13, 2025

Version 1.19.1 of Private Mendix Platform is a patch release that introduces a number of bug fixes.

#### Updates

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.21.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.21.1)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manage-cli-v0101)

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have updated libraries that were triggering false positive alerts for CVE-2024-45337 and CVE-2024-45338. 

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Private Mendix Platform was not vulnerable.
{{% /alert %}}

## 1.19.0

### Release date: February 27, 2025

Version 1.19.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, improvements, and bug fixes.

#### New Features

##### Build Timeout Setting Added

You can now customize the time after which your build process will automatically time out. You can configure this timeout period in your build image settings.

#### Improvements

##### Exporting Customized Resource Presets

The export and import feature now includes the **CIAdmin.ResourceSettings** entity, allowing you to export and import customized resource settings.

##### UX Improvements

The pipeline ID is automatically updated when you trigger a new deployment pipeline.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.33](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92433) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.21](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10621) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.12.14](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#101214) (innovation track, limited support)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.20.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.20.1)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.0](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manage-cli-v0100)
* SVIX webhooks service version 1.42.0

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have resolved some vulnerabilities in the *pmp-pipeline-tools* image.
* (Platform) We have resolved an issue that resulted in error 500 when accessing the Private Mendix Platform API server.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the version of the Blank Web App template in Studio Pro was always 10.6.18 instead of the latest version on Private Mendix Platform.
* (Platform) We have resolved an issue where custom resource settings for an environment were overwritten by default Mendix Operator settings in some cases.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where some webhooks were triggered multiple times for each pipeline execution.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where the starter app templates did not appear in Studio Pro in the MTS version.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where sending notification to multiple recipients would show an error in the logs, even though the notifications were sent successfully.
* (Platform) We have resolved an issue with creating new users.
* (UI) We have corrected some missing translations for the Chinese and Korean localizations.
* (UI) We have resolved an issue where the user would be returned to the same page after logging off and logging in again.
