---
title: "1.21"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-21/
description: "Release notes for version 1.21 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 40
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.21.

## 1.21.0

### Release date: April 30, 2025

Version 1.21.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, improvements, and bug fixes.

#### New Features

##### Authentication Supported for CI/CD resources

We have updated all settings for image registries, buckets, and file servers, to support authentication in a consistent way. This includes the following settings:

* Build Images Settings:

    * Build Image registry
    * Build Package Path file server
    * MxBuild Image registry
    * Runtime Base Image registry
    * OCI registry to save output

* Marketplace Import:

    * Import Bundle file server

We have also added an option to specify if uploading the image registry in the Build pipeline should require authentication.

##### SSO Users Visually Identified on the User Management Page

The **Manage** > **User Management** page now indicates whether a user is local, or enabled through SSO. SSO users are identified with an **SSO** icon on the page.

#### Improvements

##### Improved Pipeline Calls

You can now use REST API to call a completed pipeline.

##### Engineering Improvements

We have updated Private Mendix Platform code to SP 10.18.5.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.34](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92434) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.22](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10621) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.12.16](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#101216) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.18 MTS support has been postponed due to incompatibility issues

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix for Private Cloud Operator version [2.21.2](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.21.2)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.2](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manager-cli-v0102)
* SVIX webhooks service v.1.42.0

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have added additional validation to prevent users from creating Private Platform accounts with the same user name or email as an existing Bitbucket account.
* (Platform) We have resolved a number of issues related to screen locking.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue that occurred when logging in with OICD with custom attribute mapping.
* (UI) We have fixed an issue where a message about project deletion was displayed after logging out and logging back in.
* (UI) We have resolved a number of issues related to deep linking.
* (UI) We have made other, minor UI improvements and fixes.
