---
title: "1.22"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-22/
description: "Release notes for version 1.22 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 30
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.22.

## 1.22.0

### Release date: May 29, 2025

Version 1.22.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, improvements, and bug fixes.

#### New Features

##### Global Operator Enabled

Private Mendix Platform can now use the Mendix Operator in [Global](/developerportal/deploy/global-operator/) mode. For more information about enabling this option, refer to the [Quickstart Guide](/private-mendix-platform/quickstart/#install-operator).

#### Improvements

##### Build Settings UI Improvements

To enhance the user experience, we have made improvements to the **Build Settings** page.

##### Svix Installer Improvements

Svix installation now supports the AWS Secret Manager.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.34](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92434) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.23](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10623) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.12.16](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#101216) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.18 MTS support has been postponed due to incompatibility issues

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have upgraded the Svix version from 1.62.0 to 1.65.0 to address the CVE-2024-56406 package vulnerability.
* (Platform) We have addressed an issue with the import and export function.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where users could not log out after unlocking the screen.
* (UI) We have made other, minor UI improvements and fixes.
