---
title: "1.23"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-23/
description: "Release notes for version 1.23 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 20
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.23.

## 1.23.0

### Release date: June 26, 2025

Version 1.23.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, improvements, and bug fixes.

#### New Features

##### Vault Available as Secret Storage

We have enabled the use of Vault as external secret storage for Private Mendix Platform. For more information, refer to the [Private Mendix Platform Quick Start Guide](/private-mendix-platform/quickstart/).

##### NIST SP 800-53 Improvements

In addition to various features and improvements released in previous versions, we have made the following improvements to make Private Mendix Platform compliant with the [NIST SP 800-53 Cybersecurity framework](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework):

* Running Private Mendix Platform on AWS GovCloud:

    * Proved that Private Mendix Platform can be installed and run on AWS GovCloud.
    * Identified and documented any gaps for successful running of Private Mendix Platform on AWS GovCloud.
    * Proved that Private Mendix Platform can be installed and run on AWS GovCloud in FIPS mode.
    * Identified and documented any gaps for successful running of Private Mendix Platform on AWS GovCloud in FIPS mode.
    * Implemented automated deployment and testing of new Private Mendix Platform releases for compatibility with AWS GovCloud.
    * Implemented the automated E2E testing (auto-provision, auto-test, and so on) also on AWS GovCloud.

* Login screen improvements:

    * Added support for configuring a login banner or pop-up that can show large amount of privacy and security notices, to which the user must agree in order to continue.

* DevOps improvements:

    * Added a toggle to disable the default *MxAdmin* account for all deployed apps.

* IAM and governance - user account improvements:

    * Added a toggle to disable inactive user accounts after a configurable time limit.
    * Added configurable session expiration, so that active users are automatically logged out after a configurable session duration.
    * Added configurable idle session timeout, so that idle users are automatically logged out after a configurable period of inactivity.
    * Added a failed logon lockout capability, with the number of failed tries and lockout time period being configurable.
    * Made the session lock duration and timeout configurable, so that users' screens are automatically locked after a configurable period of inactivity.
    * Allowed administrators to configure the amount of concurrent sessions for the same user account.
    * Gave administrators the ability to force-logout any user, as well as all users.

* IAM and governance - logging and auditing:

    * Enabled the logging of every action by every role.
    * Added the ability to configure what unit of time the audit logs are generated on.
    * Increased the granularity of stored timestamps.
    * Enabled outputting stored timestamps in a specific time zone.
    * Added a setting to define logging to persist archive logs after the expiration of a configurable duration.
    * Added the ability to directly write audit logs to an external database target.
    * Added a setting to define the external logging target for real-time logging of events.
    * Added the ability to set and test connection to multiple targets for writing logs.
    * Enabled the activity log to use the Private Mendix Platform email notifications, if configured.
    * Added a setting that alerts a customer-configured email to any audit logging failures.
    * Added the ability to generate an on-demand audit with custom settings.

#### Improvements

##### Pipeline Improvements

We have updated the Build and Deploy pipeline to support app building blocks and address the CVE-2025-4949 fix.

##### UI Improvements

We have redesigned the **Build Settings** page to improve user experience.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.35](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92435) (production support)
* Studio Pro 10.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.6.24](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.6/#10624) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.12 MTS latest patch version updated to [10.12.17](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.12/#101217) (innovation track, limited support)
* Studio Pro 10.18 MTS support has been postponed due to incompatibility issues

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.21.3](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.21.3)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.3](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manage-cli-v0103)
* Svix Webhooks service version 1.65.0

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (Platform) We have upgraded the Svix version from 1.62.0 to 1.65.0 to address the CVE-2024-56406 package vulnerability.
* (Platform) We have addressed an issue with the import and export function.
* (Platform) We have fixed an issue where users could not log out after unlocking the screen.
* We have fixed vulnerabilities related to the following:

    * CVE-2025-48734
    * CVE-2025-4949
    * CVE-2025-27817

* (UI) We have made other, minor UI improvements and fixes.
