---
title: "1.24"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/1-24/
description: "Release notes for version 1.24 of Private Mendix Platform"
lts: true
weight: 10
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 1.24.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is the [LTS](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#lts) version release. Customers are encouraged to upgrade to this version. [Previous MTS versions](/releasenotes/private-platform/1-13/) of Private Mendix Platform are no longer supported.
{{% /alert %}}

## 1.24.1

### Release date: October 24, 2025

Version 1.24.1 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of updates and fixes.

#### New Features

##### Secret Management in Azure Key Vault

Private Mendix Platform now supports [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/key-vault) as an external secret management solution, alongside the traditional database storage option. For more information, see [Configuring External Secret Management with Azure Key Vault](/private-mendix-platform/configure-azure-key-vault/).

#### Improvements

##### Pipeline Improvements

We have updated the templates that provision pipelines into Jenkins and Azure DevOps Pipelines CI/CD tools to include SBOM generation and storing the file in the same folder as the MDA, for analysis by [Software Composition](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/).

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.40](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92440)
* Studio Pro 10.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [10.24.9](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/#10249)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.23.0](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.23.0)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version 0.10.4

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (General) We have fixed an issue where secrets could not be retrieved from Azure Key Vault
* (General) We have fixed an issue where packages could not be built with Azure DevOps as the CI/CD tool.
* (General) We have fixed vulnerabilities related to the following:

    * CVE-2025-8885
    * CVE-2025-8916
    * CVE-2024-25710
    * CVE-2022-23437
    * CVE-2020-14338
    * CVE-2019-12415

#### Known Issues

* Perpetual Licenses are not supported by the license upload functionality.

## 1.24.0

### Release date: September 16, 2025

Version 1.24.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of updates and fixes.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.37](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92437)
* Studio Pro 10.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [10.24.5](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/#10245)
* Studio Pro 10.6 and 10.12 are deprecated as of this release, and customers are encouraged to upgrade to Studio Pro 10.24 LTS

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.23.0](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.23.0)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version 0.10.4

#### Fixes

We have provided the following fixes:

* (General) We have fixed vulnerabilities related to the following:

    * CVE-2025-49146
    * CVE-2025-24970

* (UI) We have made other, minor UI improvements and fixes.
