---
title: "2.0"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/2-0/
description: "Release notes for version 2.0 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 9
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 2.0.

## 2.0

### Release date: December 7, 2025

Version 2.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, updates, and fixes.

#### New Features

##### Secret Management in Azure Key Vault

Private Mendix Platform now supports [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/key-vault) as an external secret management solution, alongside the traditional database storage option. For more information, see [Configuring External Secret Management with Azure Key Vault](/private-mendix-platform/configure-azure-key-vault/).

##### Secret Management in Hashicorp Vault

Private Mendix Platform now supports [Hashicorp Vault](https://www.hashicorp.com/en/products/vault) as an external secret management solution, alongside the traditional database storage option. For more information, see [Configuring External Secret Management with HashiCorp Vault](/private-mendix-platform/configure-hashicorp-vault/).

##### Dynamic Role Management

You can now connect your Single Sign-On (SSO) roles with the custom roles that you set up in Private Mendix Platform. Administrators can now manage role assignments in a more flexible and automated way, with granular control over managing permissions.

##### Software Composition Insights

Private Mendix Platform now supports Software Composition Insights. For more information, see [Software Composition](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/).

##### Pipeline Improvements

We have updated the templates that provision pipelines into Jenkins and Azure DevOps Pipelines CI/CD tools to include SBOM generation and storing the file in the same folder as the MDA, for analysis by [Software Composition](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/).

#### Improvements

##### UX Improvements

We have improved the UX for the following capabilities of Private Mendix Platform:

* Logging in
* Configuring the initial settings
* Restoring backups
* Managing users
* Managing apps
* Publishing components on the Private Mendix Platform Marketplace
* Managing components on the Private Mendix Platform Marketplace

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.40](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92440)
* Studio Pro 10.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [10.24.11](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/#102411)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.24.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.24.1)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.5](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manage-cli-v0105)
* SVIX webhooks service version 0

#### Fixes

* (General) We have fixed an issue where licenses with an expiration date past 2038 were not processed correctly after upload by the Private Mendix Platform portal and its runtime.
* (General) We have fixed vulnerabilities related to the following:

    * CVE-2025-11226
    * CVE-2021-0341

#### Deprecations

##### Tekton No Longer Supported for CI/CD

Private Mendix Platform no longer supports Tekton as a CI/CD tool. We have removed Tekton as build utility for your Build and Deploy pipelines.

#### Known Issues

##### Opening Apps in Studio Pro with Inherited Roles

Members who have roles in an app that were inherited from a group cannot open that app in Studio Pro from **My Group Apps**.

###### Solution

As a temporary workaround, ask the app owner to add you directly to the app. This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Archiving and Deleting Apps with Group Members

Archiving or deleting an app does not work if there are still members linked to it through inherited group roles.

###### Solution

Ask a Company Admin to archive or delete the app from the **App Management** page. This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Content Sharing and Transfer Issues

When content is shared with a group, the group members cannot see it on their **Group Contents** page. Content cannot be transferred to a group.

###### Solution

This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Missing Marketplace Content in Admin Panel

Marketplace-related content does not appear in the **Group Resources** section of the admin panel.

###### Solution

This issue will be resolved in a future release.
