---
title: "2.2"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/2-2/
description: "Release notes for version 2.2 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 8
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 2.2.

## 2.2

### Release date: December 12, 2025

Version 2.2 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of updates and fixes.

#### New Features

##### Maia Integration

Private Mendix Platform now offers support for [Maia-assisted app creation](/refguide/start-with-maia/). Other Maia capabilities, such as Maia Chat, are not included in this release.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This feature is available as a private beta release, available to selected customers. For more information about beta releases, see [Release Status](/releasenotes/release-status/).
{{% /alert %}}


#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.40](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92440)
* Studio Pro 10.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [10.24.11](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/#102411)
* Studio Pro 11.5 latest patch version updated to [11.5.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.5/#1150)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.24.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.24.1)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.5](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manage-cli-v0105)
* SVIX webhooks service version 1.73.0

#### Known Issues

##### Inapplicable Tabs and Items in Studio Pro

Studio Pro may sometimes display inapplicable tabs and items.

###### Solution

This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Studio Pro Marketplace Functionality Issue

The Marketplace within Studio Pro may not work correctly.

###### Solution

This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Opening Apps in Studio Pro with Inherited Roles

Members who have roles in an app that were inherited from a group cannot open that app in Studio Pro from **My Group Apps**.

###### Solution

As a temporary workaround, ask the app owner to add you directly to the app. This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Archiving and Deleting Apps with Group Members

Archiving or deleting an app does not work if there are still members linked to it through inherited group roles.

###### Solution

Ask a Company Admin to archive or delete the app from the **App Management** page. This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Content Sharing and Transfer Issues

When content is shared with a group, the group members cannot see it on their **Group Contents** page. Content cannot be transferred to a group.

###### Solution

This issue will be resolved in a future release.

##### Missing Marketplace Content in Admin Panel

Marketplace-related content does not appear in the **Group Resources** section of the admin panel.

###### Solution

This issue will be resolved in a future release.
