---
title: "2.4"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/2-4/
description: "Release notes for version 2.4 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 7
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 2.4.

## 2.4

### Release date: January 27, 2025

Version 2.4 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, updates, and fixes.

#### New Features

##### Maia Integration

Private Mendix Platform now offers support for [Maia-assisted app creation](/refguide/start-with-maia/). Other Maia capabilities, such as Maia Chat, are not included in this release.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This feature is available as a beta release, available to selected customers. For more information about beta releases, see [Release Status](/releasenotes/release-status/).
{{% /alert %}}

##### Environment Overview

The **Environment Overview** page shows an overview of all your deployed environments, helping you monitor and manage them with ease. You can use it to view information such as the status of the environment, its purpose, or the number of replicas it is running. You can also stop or scale your environments, individually or in bulk.

#### Improvements

##### Pipeline Enhancements

For the Deploy pipeline, you can now select a group as the approver for Manual Approve steps.

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.40](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92440)
* Studio Pro 10.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [10.24.13](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/#102413)
* Studio Pro 11.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [11.6.2](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.6/#1162)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.25.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.25.1)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.5](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manage-cli-v0105)

#### Fixes

* (General) We have fixed an S3 storage issue which occurred when S3 was configured without IRSA.
* (General) We have resolved an issue where users without the required permissions were able to access the **Environment Details** page.
* (General) We have resolved an issue where users without the required permissions were able to access the **Metrics and Logs** page.
* (General) We have fixed an issue where configuration from the Azure external secret store was not retrieved correctly.
* (UI) We have fixed some UI-related issues.
