---
title: "2.6"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/2-6/
description: "Release notes for version 2.6 of Private Mendix Platform"
weight: 6
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 2.6.

## 2.6

### Release date: February 13, 2025

Version 2.6 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, updates, and fixes.

#### New Features

##### Streamline Your App Creation with Mendix AI Assistance

Mendix AI Assistance (Maia) is now available for Private Mendix Platform. All app creation, recommender, and generator functionalities are supported. In addition, Private Mendix Platform supports connectivity to a broad set of Large Language Models. For more information, see [Maia in Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/maia/).

##### 



#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.41](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92441)
* Studio Pro 10.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [10.24.14](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/#102414)
* Studio Pro 11.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [11.6.2](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.6/#1162)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.25.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.25.1)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.7](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#license-manage-cli-v0107)
* Mendix Agents:

    * Interactor v1.23.2
    * Interactor v1.24.1
    * Collector v1.21.1
    * Authenticator v1.17.1

#### Fixes

* (General) We have fixed an issue where admins were not prompted to confirm deletion after deleting a user.
* (General) We have fixed an issue where group creation sometimes created duplicates.
* (General) We have fixed an issue that sometimes resulted in the creation of empty clusters.
* (General) We have fixed an issue where admins could not access the **Environment Overview** page.
* (General) We have fixed an issue that sometimes resulted in crashes after creating a deployment package.
* (General) We have fixed some issues with downloading deployment packages.
* (General) We have fixed an issue where it was possible to select the current environment after clicking **Promote**.
* (General) We have fixed some errors that occurred when adding namespaces.
* (General) We have fixed some issues that resulted in unclear error messages appearing to the user.
* (UI) We have fixed some UI-related issues.

#### Known Issues

The following functionalities are not currently supported in Connected mode:

* Environment Overview dashboard
* Metrics & Logs page
* Activity logs
* Webhooks
* Events
* SBOM Admin page
* Global Operator

Support for the functionalities will be added in future releases of Private Mendix Platform.
