---
title: "2.7"
url: /releasenotes/private-platform/2-7/
description: "Release notes for version 2.7 of Private Mendix Platform"
mts: true
weight: 5
---

These release notes cover changes made to the [Private Mendix Platform](/private-mendix-platform/) in version 2.7.

## 2.7.0

### Release date: July 3, 2026

Version 2.7.0 of Private Mendix Platform introduces a number of new features, updates, and fixes.

#### New Features

##### 



#### Improvements

##### 

#### Updates

##### Studio Pro Updates

* Studio Pro 9.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [9.24.43](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.24/#92443)
* Studio Pro 10.24 LTS latest patch version updated to [10.24.21](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/#102421)
* Studio Pro 11.6 MTS latest patch version updated to [11.6.6](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.6/#1166)

##### Other Platform Components

* Mendix on Kubernetes Operator version [2.27.1](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#2.27.1)
* Private Cloud License Manager (PCLM) version [0.10.11](/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-for-private-cloud/#0.10.11)
* [Interactor v1.25.4](https://gitlab.rnd.mendix.com/digital_ecosystems/interactor/-/pipelines/1949339)
* [Interactor Bridge v1.24.5](https://gitlab.rnd.mendix.com/digital_ecosystems/interactor-bridge/-/pipelines/1949340)
* [Collector v1.22.3](https://gitlab.rnd.mendix.com/digital_ecosystems/privatecloud-collector/-/pipelines/1949351)
* [Authenticator v1.22.3](https://gitlab.rnd.mendix.com/digital_ecosystems/privatecloud-collector/-/pipelines/1949351)
* Maia 0.39.0
* DocGen 1.0.4

#### Fixes

* (General) We have fixed an issue where it was impossible to assign a role directly to a user.
* (General) We have fixed an issue that was preventing users from leaving an app after being added as contributors.
* (General) We have resolved an issue where the **View All** button for activity logs would take users to the wrong page.
* (General) We have fixed an issue where users with view-only permissions were still able to perform some actions, such as changing the role of members within a group, or modifying namespaces associated with a group.
* (General) We have fixed an issue where users with only Web UI access permissions were still able to switch to Admin mode and access certain admin-related pages, such **MAIA**, **Environment Overview**, or **Webhooks**.
* (General) We have fixed an issue where users without permission to create applications were still able to create them externally by downloading the Starter/Service Package (SP).
* (General) We have resolved an issue where the *Changed* tag was not displayed for updated constants in standalone deployment mode.
* (UI) We have fixed some UI-related issues.