---
title: "11.1"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.1 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 99
---

## 11.1.0

**Release date: July 30, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.1.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.1.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

* We added a new, experimental [Runtime API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/runtime-api-11/) call, `Core.createOqlStatement`, to execute OQL statements.
* We implemented [OQL DELETE](/refguide/oql-statements/#oql-delete) statements to delete objects in bulk directly in the database without having to instantiate them in the runtime. This feature is available only in Java API.
* You can now add a query parameter at any request in the Consumed REST Service document through the Query Parameters grid or through the URL editor.
* We added support for uploading images and PDF files for your requests in [Maia for Domain Model](/refguide/maia-for-domain-model/).
* We added support for access keys in context menus. The following editors are supported: domain model, microflow, page, mapping, and workflow.
* We added support for getting the URL of a stored file using the new [Client API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/client-api-11/). You can now use `getFileUrl` from `mx-api/data` to get the URL pointing a stored file.
* We introduced a new core feature in Studio Pro called **Call Hierarchy**. This functionality allows you to visualize both incoming and outgoing calls for documents such as microflows, nanoflows, pages, and more. For more information, see [Call Hierarchy Pane](/refguide/call-hierarchy-pane/).
* We added a page setting to configure [autofocus](/refguide/page-properties/#autofocus) behavior, giving developers more control over accessibility and user experience. Autofocus is set to **Desktop only** on all existing pages for backwards compatibility, and set to **Off** for new pages. The available configuration options for autofocus behavior are as follows:

    | Value | Behavior |
    |-------|----------|
    | Off | No autofocus |
    | Desktop only | Autofocus is only enabled on desktop devices (computers/laptops) |
    | All platforms | Autofocus is enabled on all devices (desktop, mobile, tablets) |

### Improvements

* We improved the item order in the **Go to** dialog in Studio Pro when searching to make more relevant items appear higher in the list. (Ticket 221215)
* We made various improvements to the logic editors:
    * We now include **Change Object** activities when finding entity usages. (Ticket 249539)
    * When expanding loops after inserting elements into them, connected objects are now also moved aside.
    * When resizing an element, connected annotations are now moved the same way as other elements.
* We slightly improved the memory consumption of object attributes.
* We improved the `toString` implementation of the `IMendixObjectMember` Java API to include useful data, such as name and value.
* We have defined a list of associations: **System.WorkflowActivityRecord_Actor**, **System.WorkflowActivityRecord_TaskAssignedUsers**, and **System.WorkflowActivityRecord_TaskTargetedUsers**. Non-persistable objects referencing the current user through any of these associations will no longer be prevented from being garbage collected.
* The Chinese, Korean, and Japanese versions of the Studio Pro UI are now in general availability (GA). Please see the [Language](/refguide/preferences-dialog/#language) section of *Preferences* for more information.
* We improved the quality of Korean and Chinese translations for error, warning, and deprecation messages.
* When updating pluggable widgets, Studio Pro will now try to preserve the value of properties that change type between versions. This is done when [the property types are compatible](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#converting-properties).
* We improved Maia for Pages to support the [Progress Bar](/appstore/widgets/progress-bar/) and [Progress Circle](/appstore/widgets/progress-circle/) widgets, provided they are already installed in Studio Pro.
* We improved [Start with Maia](/refguide/start-with-maia/) by making the test data generation step optional.
* We improved the way **Start with Maia** handles errors when test data is generated. The errors are now processed more gracefully and lead to fewer unnecessary crashes.
* We improved the notification system to alert users that third-party antivirus software (Microsoft Defender excepted) may impact system performance.
* We improved the warning message shown when running an OQL query in view entities. When a query refers to `[%CurrentUser%]` and **App Security** is not toggled off, the warning message disappears as soon as the user is specified.
* We improved published REST services in Studio Pro so you can now download OpenAPI files, even when unrelated parts of the app are inconsistent.
* We improved the logging of published OData services so the **Debug** and **Trace** log levels of the **ConnectionBus_Retrieve** log node now log XPaths of requests.
* We removed the legacy toolbox in favor of the modernized **Toolbox**.
* Page, snippet, and action variables are now automatically mapped to microflow and nanoflow parameters that share the same name.
* We enabled [persistent mode](/refguide/mobile/building-efficient-mobile-apps/offlinefirst-data/best-practices/#persistent-mode) for storing file data in offline PWAs. This enables larger storage quotas (which are browser dependent), and the data will not be evicted in case of low disk space or infrequent Offline PWA use. In some web browsers this may lead to a browser dialog asking for permission. 
* We fixed an issue when there are some files left after aborting a merge, cherry-pick, or revert operation on a commit. That caused an ERROR in STP. Now the files are reset to the initial state after aborting any of the mentioned operations.
* We now remove web service user sessions if they are expired.

* We upgraded the JDBC driver for Microsoft SQL Server to version 12.10.1.
    * If you connect to SQL Server using integrated security in a module such as [Database Connector](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/2888), you may need to update the JDBC driver in `userlib` as well.
* When committing a list of objects, we now use JDBC batch updates to update associations instead of using separate JDBC calls. This was already the case for attribute updates.
* We enhanced the version control portfix functionality by integrating the Git CLI to perform this operation. This update optimizes the process and improves the overall stability of the portfix functionality.
* We removed the old **Show Changes On Disk** dialog, as changes to files on disk are now shown in the regular **Changes** pane.
* Buttons to **Choose branch line** and **Open in Studio Pro** are now always visible in the **Open App** dialog.
* We now allow the `session` and `parser` API's from `mx-api` to be used in pluggable widgets as well. They can be imported from `mendix/session` and `mendix/parser` with your widget code.
* We added the `formatValue` and `parseValue` methods from the legacy `mx.parser` API to the new client API.
* We updated the bundled Node.js from v20 to v22.
* We improved the **On Change** action of the **Tab Container** widget. 
    * Now, no attribute is required and the action is triggered whenever the tab is changed. We changed the caption for the attribute setting from **Attribute** to **Active tab index**.
* We improved the External Database Connector so you can dynamically modify connection settings at runtime by configuring connection parameters in the Query External Database microflow activity.
* We upgraded the ONNX dependency to version 1.22.0.

### Fixes

* <a id="fix-debugger-runtime-only"></a> We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.18/#ki-debugger-runtime-only) when locally re-running with runtime-only changes while using the React client. They are now properly loaded by the runtime.
* <a id="fix-debugger-reconnect"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.18/#ki-debugger-reconnect) where the debugger did not reconnect when restarting an app using the React client.
* We fixed an issue where closing a page from a microflow still triggered data source retrievals on that page. (Ticket 239900) 
* We fixed an issue where uploading a SVG image caused an error. (Ticket 244585)
* In the microflow editor, we now correctly show the **Continue** error handler on **Call microflow** activities. (Ticket 247917)
* We fixed an issue in the logic editors where a caption from the **Show Message** activity did not update when switching between languages. (Tickets 247962, 250137)
* We fixed a native-only issue that causes synchronize action to prompt error on specific scenarios. (Ticket 250114)

* We fixed a caching issue for React applications that had precaching enabled. (Ticket 250116)
* We fixed an issue where trying to auto-commit external entities threw an exception. After this fix, all external entities will be excluded from being auto-committed. (Ticket 250591)
* We fixed an issue for **Import Mappings** and **Export Mappings** that caused checkboxes in the **Select schema elements** tree structure to be set incorrectly. (Tickets 251136, 250682, 227036, 250266)
* We fixed an issue in consumed OData services where clients reading large amounts of data led to errors related to database connections. (Ticket 251379)
* We fixed an issue where the runtime log levels were not restored correctly when restarting the app from Studio Pro, in cases where the runtime had been stopped earlier due to the trial version timeout. (Ticket 251399)
* We fixed an issue where an attempt to retrieve more than 500 external objects by ID at once failed. For example, when retrieving many external objects by association. (Ticket 251911)
* We fixed an issue where, during module import, the widget version check was incorrectly comparing different widgets. (Ticket 252131)
* We fixed an issue with MxBuild that reported successful build before the build process had finished.  (Ticket 252729)
* We fixed an issue where a loop in a microflow did not execute if the first activity was disabled. (Ticket 253542)

* We fixed an issue in the logic editors on macOS where pressing <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> failed to copy the selected activity to clipboard and instead changed its caption. (Ticket 253384)
* We fixed a recurring error being caused by showing conditional hidden properties when configuring pluggable widgets through the **Properties** pane, such as Data Grid 2 columns. (Tickets 254074, 254426, 254632, 254637)
* We fixed an issue in offline synchronization that could result in error log statements and System.SynchronizationError objects containing a text like "Changing member failed for security reasons. No write access for changed member" which was caused by the offline client trying to synchronize a change for a member that was inaccessible by that user.
* We save a file name when saving a document while being offline.
* We fixed an issue in offline apps that resulted in significant longer synchronization times when large data sets were synchronized with a lot of associations.
* We fixed an error that occurred in native offline apps when upgrading from Mendix 10.12 or below.
* We fixed an issue in offline apps where the use of offline entities in XPath constraints of online entities (and the use of online entities in XPath constraints of offline entities) was not properly prohibited.
* We fixed an issue in online entities used in offline apps where associations from online entities to offline entities resulted in errors while saving data and calling microflows (errors like `java.lang.NumberFormatException: For input string: "GUID:[...]"`).
* We fixed an issue where an unconfigured input widget displayed two separate consistency errors pointing to the same problem.
* We fixed an issue where in some scenarios, the import of a module containing widgets overwrote the widgets in the app without checking the version.
* We fixed displaying parenthesis for excluded documents in the **App Explorer**.
* We added the ability to remove Studio Pro versions directly from the Version Selector interface when traditional uninstallation fails due to corrupted Windows registry paths, providing users with a manual cleanup option.
* We fixed an issue in the App Selector where users encountered crashes and error messages while trying to choose branch line of an app after switching between different user accounts.
* We now correctly render the warning message for the association storage in the **Association Properties** dialog. This was not word-wrapped which caused part of the text to be unreadable.
* We fixed an issue in the **Call External Action** activity where a consistency warning about variables was not shown even when they were used in an argument expression.
* We fixed an issue in the consistency checks of published OData services. The insertable, updatable, and deletable capabilities now have a consistency check that requires choosing a microflow when the user chooses **Call a microflow**.
* We fixed an issue in the **Call REST Service** activity in Studio Pro where the first time you edited the activity, Studio Pro did not save the body text.
* We fixed an issue in published REST services in Studio Pro where starting the app moved the **Edit** button of the location towards the left side of the screen. It now stays on the right side of the screen.
* In the logic editors, we now correctly update the **Toolbox** when the exposed **Java** or **JavaScript** action information changes.
* In the logic editors, we fixed the sequence flow control points unintentionally overlapping the connection points.
* We fixed an issue in Maia for Pages where it did not properly take the previous API output into account, which could lead to errors during subsequent requests in the same conversation.
* We fixed an issue with Start with Maia where, in certain scenarios, it used the offline blank web app template instead of the online one.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro on MacOS crashed if the Java Development Kit was not installed.
* We fixed an issue where UTC is used instead of default time zone configured in application settings when executing task queue tasks.
* We fixed an issue where conflicting versions of userlib jars did not give a consistency warning if the app had no managed dependencies configured.
* We fixed an issue where the tracing service name configuration could not be changed.
* We fixed an issue where some OpenTelemetry configurations did not apply.
* We fixed an issue where you were unable to commit unsaved documents while rebasing.
* We fixed an issue where new files created while rebasing were not added to the commit.
* We fixed an issue where selecting **Resolve conflict using serve** for a conflicted file did not solve the conflict.
* We fixed an issue where HTML anchor and area elements without a `href` attribute, interrupted the autofocus behavior, not allowing users to focus to the next item.
* We fixed an issue in the React client, where autofocus did not work when navigating to another page.
* We fixed the React client logging a message to the console to download the React Devtools when opening an app locally.
* In the Dojo client, we fixed pop-up windows resizing while interacting with a Combobox inside the pop-up window on mobile devices.
* When upgrading to a data widgets module version 3.0.0 or above, we fixed conversion issues affecting both grid-wide filtering configurations (when filter widgets were wrapped in containers) and drop-down filter settings for associations on Data grid 2 columns during widget updates.
* We fixed an error that appeared when trying to use the [Radio buttons](/refguide/radio-buttons/) widget.
* We introduced a set of pre-commit checks to ensure generated content is up to date before committing. This prevents generated content from being updated without any user input after committing, which limited the user from completing other version control operations (like a **Pull** from the server).
* We improved the autocomplete behavior in the OQL document editor to ensure relevant suggestions appear even when typing in the middle of a sentence, enhancing the writing flow and making autocomplete more useful in real-world editing scenarios.

### Breaking Changes

* We removed `com.mendix.modules.email.EmailModule` as it is no longer supported. Please use the [Email Connector](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/120739) module instead.
