---
title: "11.2"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.2/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.2 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 98
---

## 11.2.0

**Release date: August 29, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.2.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.2.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

* We introduced Workflow Groups as a beta feature to enable dynamic user targeting in workflow user tasks. When a user is added to a group targeted for a specific task, they are automatically assigned to that task. This eliminates the need for manual updates when team structure changes. You can enable workflow groups targeting in user tasks via Studio Pro under **Preferences** > **New features**. For more information, see [Workflow Groups](/refguide/workflow-groups/).
* You can now upload a PDF document in Maia for Workflows. This allows you to generate workflows based on PDF documents in addition to text and image inputs. 
* The **Changes** pane is now automatically updated if files on disk are changed outside Studio Pro. 
* We added support for saving files using the new Client API by calling `saveFile` from `mx-api/data`. For more information, see the [Client API documentation](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/client-api/).

### Improvements

* Dependencies for a portable version of Studio Pro (WebView2, OpenJDK, and Gradle) are now placed inside the application's installation folder. Installing or removing a specific version of portable Studio Pro no longer affects the dependencies of other installed versions. (Ticket 244240)
* The macOS distribution now includes the command line tools (mxbuild, mx, mxutil), conveniently accessible via `symlinks` in `/usr/local/bin`. 
* We removed the consistency error for query parameters used in a microflow activity when **Included** property is set to **No**.
* We fixed the double scrollbar and button text wrapping in the **Toolbox** when the **Toolbox** is resized to a small width.
* In logic editors, we added a tooltip to the **Tile/List** switcher in the **Toolbox**.
* We improved the consumed REST service editor, so that the headers of parameter grids are always visible.
* We changed the behavior of refresh parameters in **Send REST** microflow activity where now we do not add invalid parameters.
* When tracing is enabled, the maximum depth of microflow calls and the maximum number of loops that are reported can be configured using the `mendix.tracing.max.microflow.depth` and `mendix.tracing.max.loop.iteration` JVM properties. The default value of these properties are `10`. The microflow call depth is calculated per runtime node and does not take into account calls made into other Mendix runtimes through REST/WebServices calls.
* We improved the External Database Connector by modifying the way users can change and update the entity name.
* We improved the External Database Connector to support Ref Cursors in stored procedures on databases that allow this feature. 
* We improved the exception handling of Studio Pro when necessary .NET components are missing with a user-friendly message instead of an error pop-up.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where importing modules containing files with long paths that exceeded system path limits did not throw an error message. This fix addresses the support issues mentioned below:
    * It fixes an issue where the Nanoflow Commons could not be imported to 10.6.x_Maintenance branch line. (Ticket 227963)
    * It fixes an issue whereiImporting the Nanoflow Commons was impossible. (Ticket 234259)
* We fixed an issue where the **Response** tab in the Consumed REST service document was not loading correctly in the offline mode. (Ticket 244948) 
* We fixed an issue where the **Back** and **Forward** navigation feature did not work with styling-related files. (Ticket 252248)
* We fixed an issue that prevented updated workflows from being queued for execution when Mendix Runtime crashed during startup. (Ticket 253424)
* We fixed an issue where some log nodes were not be available in the **Set Log Levels** dialog when running a Mendix app locally from Studio Pro. (Tickets 255330, 255510, 255776)
* We fixed an issue in Import Mappings where object properties were not connected correctly to mapped attributes, resulting in empty import values. (Tickets 254351, 256716, 256726)
* We fixed an issue where an enumeration with a value or a caption set to `com` resulted in a compilation error when you tried running the app. We have also added this to the [reserved words](/refguide/enumerations/#name) list. (Ticket 255976)
* We added the refresh functionality for the Marketplace content when a session times out. The reload button will now close the details page and refresh the search tab view to ensure the latest information is displayed.
* We resolved an issue where a view entity, when loaded without entity access, would throw an exception if it was used in a context requiring entity access.
* We fixed an issue where an OQL GET request with something that was not a `SELECT` returned results instead of throwing an error. 
* We fixed an issue in OQL where declaring an alias for a table in an outer query and using that alias in a union in a subquery resulted in an exception that the alias could not be found.
* We fixed an issue in offline synchronization (using the **Synchronize unsynchronized objects** and **Synchronize all** actions) that resulted in error log statements and **System.SynchronizationError** objects containing a text **Changing member failed for security reasons, no write access for changed member**. That was caused by the offline client trying to synchronize a change for a member that was inaccessible by that user.
* We fixed an issue where two different error messages overlapped in the **Choose Branch line** pane after signing in and out.
* We fixed an issue where Studo Pro crashed due to an XPath constraint being too long or complex to parse correctly. Now a consistency error message is shown instead.
* We fixed an issue that prevented line breaks from being added to the body editor of POST requests in Consumed REST Service documents.
* We fixed an issue in external OData entity's object initialization where specifying the value for a key via a microflow expression failed.
* We fixed an issue where the XPath aggregate function `sum` returned `0` for an empty result because the name was case-sensitive.
* We fixed the issue where importing modules with files that had long paths and did not compose within path limits did not throw an error message. It will fix below mentioned support issues.
* We improved the authentication mechanism in Studio Pro. It fixes the following issues:
    * It fixes the issue where Studio Pro on macOS asked the user credentials to get access to Keychain(Passwords) for a TeamServer project.
    * It fixes the issue where the sign in dialog was displayed when committing a change in Studio Pro which was already open.
    * It fixes the PMP Git issue where wrong credentials were fetched from the Windows credentials store.
* We fixed an issue where in case of corrupted metadata Studio Pro crashed when opening the **History** dialog.
* We fixed an issue where primary (default) buttons had an unreadable text color.
* We fixed the item order under the **View** menu. 
* We fixed an issue with the **Dojo demo user switcher** widget where it did not reload the app after switching to a different user, giving the impression that nothing happened.
* We fixed a conversion issue affecting sorting in the **Gallery** widget, specifically when upgrading the data widgets Marketplace module to version 3.0.0 or above.
* We fixed an issue where, when there were no conflicting changes, users were not properly notified and some metadata was missing due to the cherry-pick process.

### Deprecations

* Starting with Mendix version 11.4, we will drop support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by the vendors:
    * MariaDB 10.5
    * Microsoft SQL Server 2019
    * MySQL 8.0

### Breaking Changes

* Extension authors cannot simply obtain access to `studioPro` object anymore, but have to create it using a function `getStudioProApi`. Extensions API documentation provides more details and examples. 
* We now disallow downgrading a Mendix database that had been previously deployed with a newer version of Mendix.
* We removed the numeric part of IDs in the HTML and added `l` or `p` prefixes for layouts and pages. For example, `89.PCP.MyApps_Overview.snippetCall4` will now be `p.PCP.MyApps_Overview.snippetCall4` instead. The purpose of those numeric parts was to ensure uniqueness of the IDs, however, they are actually not needed here as a page and layout already have unique identifiers. Furthermore, their pseudo-random nature meant that rebuilding an application resulted in more changes than needed, limiting the cachability of Mendix applications.
