---
title: "11.4"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.4/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.4 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 96
---

## 11.4.0

**Release date: October ___, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.4.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.4.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

- When used in the experimental Java API `OqlStatement` to run OQL statements, the `UPDATE` statement can now also update associations.
- We introduced the [batch conversion](/refguide/mendix-client/batch-conversion/) capability in Studio Pro so you can convert old widgets no longer supported by the [React client](/refguide/mendix-client/react/).

#### New Fetch Options

Using new options, you can now manually fetch changes from the version control server. These options allow you to check for server-side updates without applying them to your local copy, complementing the existing periodic polling mechanism.

These are the new ways to initiate fetches in Studio Pro:

* The **Fetch** submenu under the **Version Control** menu
* The **Fetch** icon button in the **Changes** pane

These additions make it easier to inspect server-side changes and stay up to date with repository activity.

### Improvements

- We now avoid resetting failed login count during login when it is already zero. (Ticket 260858)
- We support optional parameters for actions in consumed REST services. When a parameter has the `Org.OData.Core.V1.OptionalParameter` annotation, Studio Pro allows you to not specify a value for it.
- We added support for Oracle 23.
- When generating overview pages, a **Page Template** can now be selected. This provides more control over the resulting page.
- We increased the default size of popup dialogs that contain expression fields, to allow for easier editing of the expressions.
- When manually resizing a popup dialog in Studio Pro, it will remember the new size and use it next time the dialog is opened again.
- We improved the rendering performance of repeating widgets in Design mode, by only rendering a single repeat for widgets within a snippet call, parent layout, or nested within another repeating widget.
- We improved the consumed REST service editor in Studio Pro. It is now less strict in the names of parameters, allowing all characters except `:/?#@!$&'()*+,;=\"` and spaces.
- We improved the OpenAPI document for published OData services:
  - It no longer specifies the `style` property of parameters when it is the default style. This makes the document shorter without changing its semantics.
  - It now indicates whether responses are optional or not.
- In the Consumed REST Service document in Studio Pro you can now import OpenAPI/Swagger contracts that contain errors. This is especially useful when the errors are in parts of the contract that the app does not use.
- The Mendix runtime will no longer start if an invalid time zone is set. This was a critical log message before.
- We added the `AbsoluteSessionTimeout` runtime setting. When this setting is configured to a duration, sessions will be expired regardless of whether they are active or not.
- We now hide unsupported widgets from the toolbox when React client is enabled.
- We have optimized the page exports for the React and Native clients. This can lead up to a 35% decrease in the exported page size making the resulting bundle a lot smaller.

### Fixes

- We fixed an issue where the dropdown reopened automatically after closing. (Tickets 246215 257081 257895 258443 261466)
- We fixed a non-fatal crash in the studio pro installer when the installer is checking if the dotnet version is already installed or not. (Ticket 253218)
- We fixed an issue in the React client where autofocus was incorrectly triggered by dynamically loaded widgets, causing combo boxes that use a widget with a dynamic source in their custom content to unexpectedly lose focus and close. (Ticket 254768)
- We fixed an issue in the Studio Pro XPath constraint parser that incorrectly allowed associations and associated objects to be compared to Boolean values or empty, while that was not supported on the runtime. The following constructs will now lead to consistency errors (Tickets 254830 and 258029):
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation = false()]`
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation = empty]`
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation/MyModule.MyEntity = false()]`
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation/MyModule.MyEntity = empty]`
- We fixed an issue where Import mappings using 'Find an object (by key)' or 'Call a microflow' did not create an object for valid input. (Tickets 255130, 260462)
- We fixed an issue where trying to delete a huge amount (~ millions) of anonymous sessions during startup would cause OOM errors. We now delete sessions and anonymous users in batches to avoid this problem. (Ticket 257047)
- We fixed an issue where Node.js would run out of memory during the bundling process of very large, complex applications using the React Client (Ticket 257472)
- We fixed an issue where the React client would not get bundled when deploying for Eclipse. (Ticket 258470)
- In the logic editors, we fixed the zoom in/zoom out behavior of error handling icons. (Ticket 258424)
- We improved the performance of the tree control that allows you to select elements for Message Definitions and Import/Export Mappings. (Ticket 258606).
- We fixed an issue in offline apps causing "no such table" errors, caused by not having the owning entities of associations used in XPath constraints as offline entities. (Ticket 258840)
- When using Oracle, we no longer use `dbms.lob_substr` in the generated SQL for enumeration attributes with values shorter than 2000 characters. (Ticket 259283)
- We fixed an issue where a Java action could still cause compilation errors, even if excluded from the project. (Ticket 259414)
- We fixed an issue with offline PWAs when using the React client where changes to the application would not be shown to the user without clearing the cache. (Ticket 260673)
- We fixed "no such column" error when synchronizing a file or image derived entity which itself is derived by another entity with an offline synchronization mode (Ticket 261700).
- We fixed an issue where duplicate responsive navigation profiles could not be removed.
- We fixed an issue in the Studio Pro XPath constraint parser that not treated `true` and `false` the same as their function equivalents (`true()` and `false()` respectively).
- Fixed an issue in offline apps causing "no such table" errors, caused by having an entity with an online synchronization mode specified in the synchronization nanoflow action.
- We fixed an issue where events created by the sidebar toggle button weren't getting cleaned up, leading to memory issues.
- We fixed an issue in the modernized app explorer where the search query would not reset when opening or creating a new app.
- We fixed checking version functionality that allowed to perform version control operations on revisions that were created on older Studio Pro versions, or with invalid metadata.
Affected operations are: rebase, merge, merge feature branch, cherry-pick and revert.
- We fixed an issue in workflows where a multi-user task would not become failed if it has no targeted users.
- We fixed an issue in offline apps that may result in that data validations of microflow calls are not properly handled.
- We fixed a memory leak that occurred when editing an action of a Microflow.
- We fixed a memory leak when re-opening a project, or switching branches in Studio Pro.
- We fixed an issue in Studio Pro on macOS where the keyboard focus would get lost while typing in a text field in a dialog.
- We improved Studio Pro memory usage in operations that involve processing the project's structure (for example when finding usages 0r checking errors).
- We fixed an issue preventing opening apps passed as startup arguments for Studio Pro in MacOS.
- We fixed a few memory leaks in React client, most notably when closing and open pages.
- We fixed an issue where building an app in different Culture would result in decimal numbers changing their decimal separator.
- We fixed an issue for Export mappings where a recursive XSD structure was not properly marked as invalid in case more than 1000 mandatory elements were auto-selected.
- We fixed an issue where the Consumed REST Service could not distinguish between no operation security and empty array operation security. Now, when an OpenAPI contract is imported, it will correctly no longer add security headers for an operation with empty array operation security.
- We fixed an issue in consumed REST services in Studio Pro. The _parameters_ and _query parameters_ table headers are now always visible, even when no parameters are defined.
- We fixed an issue in Studio Pro where restarting Windows with an open app and then opening the app again would result in a warning dialog about the app already being open.
- We fixed an issue with opening a Studio Pro 10 app that uses the send REST request microflow activity in Studio Pro 11. For operations with query parameters this would result in a consistency error about the parameters having changed.
- You can now drag a consumed REST service to a microflow. This creates a _Send REST Request_ activity.
- Fixed an issue in Studio Pro Send REST Activity where refreshing parameters in the Parameters grid did not update the Base URL.
- We fixed an issue in the Call External Action microflow activity. To call an action without arguments, it now sends `{}` in the request body, rather than having an empty request body.
- We fixed an issue where task queue tasks were not able to mark themselves as completed after execution.
- We fixed an issue where object version attribute incorrectly incremented when an unchanged object is committed.
- We fixed an issue with using a dash `-` in the *Organization Name* of a pluggable widget.
- We fixed an issue in Domain Model Editor where navigating to a specific OQL view entity with a consistency error from the Error pane would result in an error if the "Show View Entity" option was disabled.
- We fixed an issue in Domain Model Editor where copy pasting View Entities were broken and resulting invalid consistency errors.

### Deprecations
    
- We dropped support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by the vendors:
    - MariaDB 10.5
    - Microsoft SQL Server 2019
    - MySQL 8.0
