---
title: "11.5"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.5/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.5 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 96
---

## 11.5.0 {#1150}

**Release date: _____, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.5.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.5.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

- Pages and snippets can now capture and use return values when calling microflows or nanoflows by specifying an [action return value mapping](/refguide/return-value-mapping/). For primitive return values, the value can be assigned to any matching attribute, page variable, or snippet variable. For object return values, select one or more attributes to map to different variables — useful for assigning multiple computed values from a single flow call. Return values can be transformed using expressions before assignment, such as applying formatting when assigning a number to a string variable. This feature enhances microflow and nanoflow reusability by allowing pages to update local values based on flow return values without needing to pass objects containing those attributes to the flow. It also enables changing variables on pages and snippets based on business logic modeled in the flows.
- The [Call external action](/refguide/call-external-action/) activity now allows adding additional attributes for parameters that are open types.
- We introduced a new UI element in the [Integration pane](/refguide/integration-pane/) to separate catalog services from already consumed services. The new UI shows them in dedicated segments with independent search functionality.
- It is now possible to filter on date in the beta [History pane](/refguide/history-dialog/).
- The beta [History pane](/refguide/history-dialog/) now shows an icon for changed documents to indicate the document type.
- We now render the `href` property for link buttons and navigation items linking to a Mendix page that have a page URL or have a literal value address, improving accessibility and enabling **open‑in‑new‑tab** and **copy‑link** browser actions.

#### Optimistic Locking
            
- We made optimistic locking publicly available as a beta feature. This allows apps to safe-guard for concurrent modifications. It can be enabled in the Runtime tab of the project settings dialog. Enabling this feature gives each entity an extra system attribute (`MxObjectVersion` of type `Long`). Its behavior will be automatically handled by the system. More details can be found in the documentation: http://docs.mendix.com/refguide/optimistic-locking.

### Improvements

- When manually resizing a popup dialog in Studio Pro, it will remember the new size and use it next time the dialog is opened again. This feature can be switched off with a new setting in the **Environment** tab of **Preferences**. To forget the stored dialog sizes again, we added an option to the **Restore Default Layout** popup dialog that can be opened from the **View** menu.
* We upgraded the JDBC driver for Microsoft SQL Server to version 13.2.1.
    * If you connect to SQL Server using integrated security in a module such as [Database Connector](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/2888), you may need to update the JDBC driver in `userlib` as well.
- We switched from IndexedDB storage for the Offline PWA database to OPFS storage. This will enhance the performance of synchronization and SQL queries in general. The first time the Offline PWA is opened or refreshed on this new Mendix version, it will trigger the migration of data from the IndexedDB storage. It will take some time and the application start will be delayed until that is finished, depending on the size of the offline database for that browser.
- We added support for the following [language](/refguide/language-settings/): Georgian.
- We added "Enter" key press handler to expand or collapse nodes in the modernized app explorer.
- When an OQL UPDATE statement has a SET expression that returns multiple rows, we now throw a `CardinalityViolationException` instead of a generic `ConnectionBusException`.
- We improved the way Studio Pro updates attributes and associations based on the OQL query of a view entity. It now renames existing attributes and assocations when the expression is the same but the alias is different.
- We improved the Send REST Request activity in Studio Pro. It now indicates whether parameters are required or not.
- We implemented a new [Tracing](/refguide/tracing-in-runtime/#testing) feature that allows filtering out spans by their name. 
- We have improved the UX of the managed dependencies and userlib jar exclusions dialogs. Now checking the rows will exclude the jars, instead of including them.
-  The logout API in the new client `mx-api` now supports an optional params object with `reloadOnSuccess` flag. By default, `mx-api/logout` automatically reloads the page after a successful logout if you call it with no params object. If you pass a params object `{reloadOnSuccess: false}`, the automatic reload is disabled so you can implement your own custom logout flow and trigger reload yourself when needed.
- We now log a warning when runtime operation parameters are missing during a database retrieval with an XPath constraint.This can happen, for example, when a nanoflow retrieve activity uses an XPath constraint that references an associated object that is not yet available in the nanoflow scope. In such cases, that would lead to unresolvable XPath. (Ticket 260339)
- Mendix 11 introduces a change in the versioning schema by dropping the fourth element, known as the build number. Versions will now follow a SemVer pattern `major.minor.pat ch` with the occasional pre-release suffix (for example `beta.1` for planned pre-releases). This semantic version will also be the version that is returned by Core.getRuntimeVersion(). Apps build with a pre-release can be identified internally by their exact version.

### Fixes
    
- We fixed an issue where a wait-for-timer activity could get stuck when its workflow was upgraded while the activity was active. (Ticket 263288)
- When editing a Page Template it is no longer possible to select the option 'shown when generating select pages' if the app uses the React client.
- We fixed the following bugs in the version selector:
  - When opening a widget .mpk the file was kept on hold even after closing the dialog, preventing it to be renamed or opened.
  - Closing the "Version not found" dialog launched the selected Studio Pro version instead of just closing the dialog.
  - The Studio Pro versions were not displayed with the correct format.
- We fixed an issue in which incompatible React client widgets did not emit an error when they are nested inside a pluggable widget. (Ticket 253896)
- We fixed memory leaks related to the style document editor.
- Fixed a migration issue from 10.24 to 11.x that attempted to recreate an already existing column in a table in the offline app database.
- We fixed an issue where JSON Import mappings stopped finding objects. (Ticket 258507)
- We fixed an issue where undoing a widget update could lead to an inconsistent model, causing an error when attempting to reopen the project. We now prevent undo actions for widget updates to safeguard against similar issues. (Tickets 256004, 260822)  
- We fixed an issue where conditional editability expressions in snippet calls incorrectly references variables when nested snippets were involved. (Tickets 257120, 262408)
- We fixed a "no such column" error upon a "CREATE INDEX" query when upgrading an offline app that has an association added to an entity. (Ticket 261700)
- We fixed an issue for the Message Definitions editor where custom values for editable fields like 'External Name' disappeared. (Ticket 263144, 263609, 263817, 264535, 264805, 264850)
- We fixed a bug where the JavaScript Action code editor would overlap with the errors pane after resizing it.
- We reduced the size of the Studio Pro installer on Windows.
- Fixed an issue where XPath access rules on a view entity could lead to an "Object hash is invalid!" error. (Ticket 255889)
- We now allow first time users to use Studio Pro without login in when opening Studio Pro for the first time.
- We fixed in issue in Studio Pro that could result in an "System.InvalidOperationException: No undo context." error while building apps with offline profiles.
- We fixed auto scrolling to the first matched node after search in the modernized app explorer.
- We removed unnecessary auto scroll after converting/creating/duplicating a document if document is already in the view in the modernized app explorer.
- We fixed an issue in consumed OData services in Studio Pro. Studio Pro would not recognize optional parameters in metadata files containing a reference to the core vocabulary.
- We fixed an issue with OpenAPI v3 exports for Publish REST services where contracts with reference schema were not showing attributes for referenced objects.
- We fixed an issue in consumed OData services in Studio Pro, where importing a metadata file with incorrect XML namespaces would show and **Importing...** progress dialog without ever completing the import.
- We fixed issues where green checkmarks were inconsistently displayed in the Integration pane after dragging remote entities from OData services and the catalog to the domain model.
- We fixed an issue where search criteria were not properly retained in the beta history pane.
- We fixed an issue where the search criteria weren't properly cleared when closing the beta history pane.
- We fixed an issue where source maps for pluggable widgets were not included correctly in the React client bundle when **Optimize bundle** is set to **No**. (Ticket 261353)
- We fixed an issue where widgets with unbounded dynamic imports (e.g. `await import(path);`) would result in a bundling error when using the React client. They are now marked as external which means they will be resolved when the widget is loaded in the browser. (Ticket 261630)
- We fixed a bug where nanoflows would not be exported when re-added to a page after a full deployment cycle. The issue occurred when a nanoflow was removed from a page during hot-reload, followed by a full deployment, and then re-added during another hot-reload.
- Added an example of the client Data#get() API for a Get-By-Path situation and made the entity parameter optional for offline apps (as is the case for online apps).
