---
title: "11.6"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.6/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.6 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 94
mts: true
---

## 11.6.1 {#1161}

**Release date: January 8, 2026**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.6.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.6.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements
    
- We introduced a new log node named **SystemTask** for logging system management actions.
- We improved the performance of runtime statistics collection.
- We improved the performance of the **Best Practice Recommender**. It now runs faster while using less memory.
- We improved the performance of [document](/developerportal/general/documents/) operations (**add**, **rename**, **delete**, and more) in the **App Explorer**.
- We added batching to the `session keep-alive` and `last action execution update` maintenance tasks. The batch size can be changed using the `SessionKeepAliveUpdateBatchSize` and `LastActionExecutionUpdateBatchSize` runtime settings.
- We now support tags for the `tcpjsonlines` log subscriber. These can be configured with the `tags` property in the configuration of the log subscriber.
- For the `tcpjsonlines` log subscriber we now include tracing information if `includeTracingInformation` is set to `true` when creating the log subscriber. Additionally, `traceIdAttribute` and `spanIdAttribute` can be passed to configure the attributes of the trace and span IDs in the output JSON log.

### Fixes

- We fixed an issue where sorting by column would not work after using the text search on a grid. (Ticket 266400)
- We fixed an issue where Studio Pro could crash when importing a font for an [icon collection](/refguide/icon-collection/). (Ticket 266772)
- We fixed an issue where an incorrectly configured [placeholder text](/refguide/text-box/#placeholder-text) did not show a consistency error and could result in an error during deployment. (Ticket 266923) 
- We resolved an issue where passwords, when having write access for the password attribute, could be modified directly through the `synchronize_objects` API.
- We fixed an issue that was causing excluded modules to be included in **main.scss** when generating layered CSS.
- We fixed an issue where pasting a view entity together with its associated persistent entity would cause a freeze and an Oops pop-up window.
- In the logic editors, we fixed a bug that causes Maia Explain for Microflows to crash.
- We fixed an issue where an Oops pop-up window was displayed when **Edit** > **Find** returned new JSON structure documents.
- We fixed an issue in consumed REST services in Studio Pro where sending a request to a URL that contained invalid characters would result in an Oops pop-up window.
- We now correctly set the log node name as the "node" attribute and the exception cause as the "cause" attribute for the OpenTelemetry log subscriber.
- We fixed an issue where calling the `get_license_information` while using a SALT license would cause an error.

### Breaking Changes

- Curly braces in a [placeholder text](/refguide/text-box/#placeholder-text) (for example, `{Name}`) must now be escaped with an extra opening curly brace (for example, `{{Name}`) to prevent the text from being incorrectly interpreted as a placeholder expression.

## 11.6.0 {#1160}

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
Owing to an unforeseen issue, if you downloaded Mendix version 11.6.0 between 23 December 2025 and 6 January 2026, you may have received the wrong build.

To ensure you have the correct build, download version 11.6.0 again.

Mendix apologizes for the inconvenience.
{{% /alert %}}

**Release date: December 23, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.6.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.6.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

* We have redesigned the way the menus work in our Extensibility APIs (browse our API docs by Studio Pro version [here](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/)). They no longer require the `commandId` property or listening to the `menuItemActivated` event. They now contain an `action` property which will be invoked directly when the menu is clicked.
    * Please note that this is a breaking change. Your extension needs to update its usages of the menus to the new structure.
* The modernized (web) runtime console is now available through a preference in the **New Features** tab.
* For custom and pluggable widget we introduced the `<prompt>` element for pluggable widgets, allowing you to enhance their definitions so Maia can provide smarter development assistance by understanding your widget's purpose and properties.
* Open type parameters in the [Call external action](/refguide/call-external-action/) microflow activity now support additional attributes that are a collection of primitive values.
* The new non-blocking, searchable **History** pane is now GA for full clones. A preference has been added to keep using the old **History** window.
    * We added your Mendix version to the **History** pane's **Details** section.
    * It is now possible to copy values from the **History** pane.
* Group targeting for workflow user tasks is now released for GA. This makes user targeting more dynamic. You can create workflow groups and assign tasks to entire groups instead of individual users. When group membership changes, task access automatically updates. Group members gain or lose access when they join or leave the targeted groups. For more information, see [Workflow Groups](/refguide/workflow-groups/).
* We added support for multiple workflow endpoints, which makes workflow termination more flexible. You can now end workflows through multiple end events instead of a single endpoint. User tasks and other activities with multiple outcomes can each lead to their own end event. Additionally, those final elements can be jump activities instead of end events.

#### Primitive Parameters Support for Pages

It is now possible to define primitive parameters (like a `String` or `Boolean`) for pages. When opening a page with a [Show Page client action](/refguide/on-click-event/#show-page) or [activity](/refguide/show-page/), you can now use [expressions](/refguide/expressions/) to set primitive values as arguments for pages, use functions, and even follow associations!

One of the big advantages is that a page can now use a local variable and pass it to another page. This removes the need to create an entity and an object, when you just want to pass a value to a subsequent page.

In general, logic that has primitive parameters can be more easily reused as it is not tied to the domain model. Thus, this feature also improves overall reusability. You can imagine how much easier and faster this makes modeling!

Additionally, page parameters can now be marked as **Optional** and be given a **Default value** expression. When a parameter is optional, it is not necessary to assign it an [argument value](/refguide/page-parameter/#argument) when opening a page from a button, action, microflow, or nanoflow. Unassigned optional parameters will be set to their default value when the page is opened. Optional parameters make it easy to extend pages, allowing you to add new parameters without the need to update all existing usages.

### Improvements
    
* We made an improvement to the scheduling of cluster node management actions.
* The experimental Java API `OqlStatement` to run OQL statements now also supports **INSERT INTO SELECT** statements to create new objects.
* We added extra validations for **OQL UPDATE** statements. For more information, see the [UPDATE Statement](/refguide/oql-statements/#oql-update) section of *OQL Statements* for details.
* We added support for the following database versions:
    * PostgreSQL 18
    * Microsoft SQL Server 2025
* We improved our handling of error messages in the Mendix Runtime Server. This entails:
    * No more useless **Broken Pipe** errors in your log file
    * Removal of less useful messages that hid the actual error, this brings the actual cause of an error into the top level exception message
    * Circumvention of excessive exception wrapping

    The consequence of this change is that error messages will be different. In addition, exception nesting will be less deep, meaning that code depending on finding some specific exception hardcoded with a specified number of levels deep (using `exception.getCause().getCause()` for example), will probably fail. Mendix apologizes if this affects you, but the decision was that the benefits of this change (giving better and easier to find error information) outweigh the consequences of the changes in messages and changes in the exception nesting.

    To circumvent the impact of this change a Custom Runtime Server setting has been introduced. Adding `UseOldExceptionBehavior` with value `true` will provide the previous behavior and error messages.

* We added support for configuring the decimal scale (digits after the decimal point) at the app level. Scale was previously fixed at 8, with a total precision of 28. It can now be configured as any value between 8 and 18, inclusive. Precision will then be equal to scale plus 20. This setting applies to all decimal attributes; lowering the scale may require data migration and could result in data loss.
* We changed the timing of initializing Micrometer gauges during Runtime startup. Previously, the gauges were initialized too early in the startup sequence which would lead to the following warning message - `Failed to apply the value function for the gauge 'mx.runtime.stats.sessions.named_user_sessions'`. Now gauges are initialized after the database connection has fully initialized, which also gets rid of the warning messages in the logs.
* We now clean up expired sessions in batches instead of all at once.
* We aligned the order of the options of the **Use React Client** setting with the order of other settings.
* We improved timer behavior in workflows to handle `null` or `empty` expressions by skipping the wait instead of throwing an exception.
    * Timer as a standalone activity: Moves directly to the **Finished** state. The flow continues with the next activity while the timer remains part of the timeline for tracking.
    * Timer as a boundary event: Will not start and is marked as **Aborted**, allowing you to make timers conditional.

* We upgraded to React 19 and React Native 0.78, bringing the latest performance improvements and features from both ecosystems. These updates provide enhanced rendering performance, improved native module integration, and a more modern foundation for building your low-code applications.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that caused slow serialization of Mendix objects in microflow responses when entity access was not applied during retrieval. Serialization speed is now comparable as when entity access is applied. (Ticket 226097)
* We fixed an error in the Studio Pro installer when the installer is checking if the .NET version is already installed or not. (Ticket 253218)
* We fixed an issue where we blocked  pull, merge feature branch, revert, and cherry pick operations when there was broken commit metadata. (Ticket 265265)
* We fixed an issue where creating a new branch from a tag was not working. (Ticket 259691)
* We fixed an issue where unsaved changes of the System Text editor would be committed when running the app locally. (Ticket 259664)
* We fixed an issue that prevented some users authenticating in Studio Pro. (Ticket 259700)
* We fixed an issue where OQL query parsing would fail if the query included a numeric **WHEN** clause without an accompanying **ELSE** condition. (Ticket 255719)
* We fixed an issue where generating a tailored homepage failed with **Start with Maia**.
* In the logic editors, we fixed a performance issue while running a project with many microflows locally. (Ticket 259254)
* We fixed an issue where System.UserRole's Description attribute is not readable when it should be. (Ticket 259857)
* SQLite files are now included in the service worker’s pre-cache list to ensure they are available offline. (Ticket 264140, Ticket 264910)
* We fixed an issue for Import Mappings and Export Mappings where, after reopening and saving in the **select elements** dialog, previously selected elements deep in the tree structure were no longer selected. (Ticket 264531)
* We fixed an issue with Import Mappings and Export Mappings where Studio Pro would crash when the 'Select Elements' functionality was used with recursive XML structures. (Tickets 265339, 265510)
* The OQL function DATEPART with MILLISECOND now also works on HSQLDB and SAP HANA.
* We fixed an issue where, when using MariaDB 10.x or MySQL, an OQL data modification statement could fail with the message "Table 'mendixsystem$temporary_ids' already exists".
* We fixed the issue in modernized app explorer when <kbd>Enter</kbd> press on a leaf node did not open a document.
* We fixed an issue where microflow names are omitted from the context menu in the **Go to microflow** option.
* We fixed a bug which caused exceptions when undoing the addition of a custom widget to a page (from the recommender, Maia or <kbd>ctrl</kbd> + drag and drop), while the properties tab was open and that widget was selected.
* We fixed an error when typing invalid values in the zoom combo box on the page editor (in structure mode).
* We fixed an issue in Published Rest Service where the wrong response schema was being generated with Export Mapping for OpenAPI v3.
* We fixed an issue where scheduled events with **On overlap** configured as **Delay next** would cause a lot of "Skipping the update of ScheduledEvent because it's running; retrying in 7 seconds." log messages, if the application was started with some time between the shutdown and the restart.
* We fixed an issue where `Core.getLicenseInformation().products()` did not return a numeric value if the value was larger than 2147483647.
* We fixed the issue that invalid sessions without an associated user were never removed from the database.
* We now parse StdOut and StdError streams separately when calling a Git process. This improves the stability of Git operations.
* We added timeout handling for the history panel. Now it will retry to get the history from Git 3 times.
* We now only log 404 errors in development mode to reduce log noise in production environments. Server access logs should be used for 404 tracking in production.
* We fixed an issue in the Dojo and React clients, where pressing the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key did not close a modal pane in the application when autofocus was disabled.
* We fixed a bug where the File Uploader was not clickable when nested in a container.

### Breaking Changes
    
* We upgraded the AWS S3 library used for S3 file storage backend from version 1 to 2. This new version of the library has stricter configuration handling and only supports AES for client side encryption. More information can be found in [Upgrading from Mendix Studio Pro 10 to 11](/refguide/upgrading-from-10-to-11/) and [S3 Storage Service Settings](/refguide/custom-settings/#amazon-s3-storage-service-settings).
* We added a consistency check for code actions that have a filename that does not match the casing of the document name, which could cause issues on certain operating systems, and when deploying to the cloud environment.

### Known Issues

#### Mobile

* When you [clear history](/refguide/mobile/designing-mobile-user-interfaces/navigation/#combining-closing-and-opening-pages) when navigating from a page without a bottom bar to a page with a bottom bar, the bottom bar does not display. We are aware of this issue and are working on a fix.
