---
title: "11.7"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/11.7/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 11.7 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 93
---

## 11.7.0 {#1170}

**Release date: ___, 2026**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/11.7.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 11.7.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* Studio Pro has been updated to run on .NET 10 instead of .NET 8. As a result, .NET 10 is now a required prerequisite for the application. For more information, see [System Requirements](/refguide/system-requirements/).
* We reduced the overhead on autocommitted object administration for REST calls.
* We improved the performance of runtime statistics collection.
* We introduced a new log node named `SystemTask` for logging system management actions.
* We extended the [FeedbackHelper.addOpenFormFeedback](https://apidocs.rnd.mendix.com/11/runtime/com/mendix/webui/FeedbackHelper.html#addOpenFormFeedback(com.mendix.systemwideinterfaces.core.IContext,java.lang.String,com.mendix.systemwideinterfaces.core.IFeedback.FormTarget,boolean,int,int,java.util.Map)) Java API to allow opening pages with primitive and optional parameters.
* We improved the performance of documents operations (**add**, **rename**, **delete**, and more) in the App Explorer.
* We added support for inline and block commenting in OQL for improved query readability. Use `--` for single-line comments and `/* … */` for multi-line comments with nesting. To enact these comments with editor shortcuts, press the following:
    * Line comment: <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>/</kbd> (Win/Linux), <kbd>Cmd</kbd>+<kbd>/</kbd> (macOS)
    * Block comment: <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Alt</kbd>+<kbd>A</kbd> (Win/Linux), <kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>Option</kbd>+<kbd>A</kbd> (macOS).
* The `OQL INSERT INTO` statement can now also insert associations. 
* We improved the location of generated entities when consuming an external action in Studio Pro.
* We improved the performance of the [Best Practice Recommender](/refguide/best-practice-recommender/). It now runs faster and uses less memory.
* We added batching to the `session keep-alive` and `last action execution update` maintenance tasks. The batch size can be changed using the `SessionKeepAliveUpdateBatchSize` and `LastActionExecutionUpdateBatchSize` runtime settings.
* We improved handling of cases where a user is deleted while a session is concurrently retrieved for that same user.
* We removed several offline limitations for pages accessible through offline-based navigation profiles. The following features are now supported in offline pages:
    * Entity constraints in custom widgets (previously CE0663)
    * List views with templates (previously CE0984)
    * Grids with search bars (previously CE3852)
    * Entity paths with multiple steps (previously CE4777)
    * Edit buttons with pages for specializations (previously CE5257)
    * List views with search fields containing numeric attributes (previously CE6154)
    * Non-pluggable widgets with entities set to online synchronization mode (previously CE6798)
    * Delete client actions with non-persistable entities (previously CE6903)
    * Additional data source types (previously CE7079)
    * `Constrained by` functionality (previously CE9127)
* We no longer allow you to instantiate entities with AutoNumber or calculated attributes in pages or nanoflows using offline-based navigation profiles. This is because the values for those attributes cannot be correctly determined in offline apps. This was not checked in previous versions of Studio Pro and may result in consistency errors when migrating apps that do this. Entities with AutoNumber or Calculated attributes can still be used in offline pages, just not instantiated offline.
* We enabled the `File manager` component for offline Progressive Web Applications (PWA). We also added file uploading and downloading features to offline PWAs.
* The following APIs were updated:
    * The `mx.ui.downloadFile` function is now asynchronous.
    * The `mx.data.getFileUrl` function is now asynchronous.
    * The `getFileUrl` function is now asynchronous in the `mx-api/data` module.
* The `tcpjsonlines` log subscriber has the following improvements:
    * We now support tags. These can be configured with the `tags` property in the configuration of the log subscriber.
    * We now include tracing information if `includeTracingInformation` is set to `true` when creating the log subscriber. Additionally, `traceIdAttribute` and `spanIdAttribute` can be passed to configure the attributes of trace and span IDs in the output JSON log.
* We improved session cleanup performance.
* We added keyboard accelerators to the **Find Usages** and **Show Call Hierarchy** options in context menus.
* We increased Studio Pro internal timeouts for front end web content from 10 to 30 seconds. This will reduce errors being raised during SP initialization.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the last attributes were cut-off in the entity properties dialog. (Tickets 251278, 255882, 256106, 260953, 266554)
* We fixed an issue where the **Find Advanced** > **Unused Items** feature would list enumerations as unused, even when they were actually used (in Microflow expressions). Now, enumerations whose values are used in your project are no longer falsely reported as unused. (Ticket 253576)
* We fixed an issue where converting a microflow to a nanoflow would incorrectly preserve the **Execute on task queue** setting on microflow call actions. This setting is now properly cleared during conversion, as nanoflows do not support task queue execution (Ticket 262128)
* We fixed an issue in consumed web services where the `Content` attribute of the `$latestHttpResponse` variable would be empty when a SOAP fault occurred. (Ticket 263286)
* We fixed an issue where typing in a Dataset document was slow, causing delays in displaying each character. (Ticket 263330)
* In the logic editors, we fixed an issue which occurred when an extracted microflow did not have all the parameters for a newly created activity. (Ticket 265542)
* We fixed an issue in consumed OData services that have external enumeration values that are reserved words such as `Int`. The runtime would prepend an underscore to these values when applying a filter. (Ticket 265706)
* We fixed an issue where write permissions could not be removed for attributes that were converted to read-only types (such as AutoNumber). (Ticket 265906)
* We fixed an issue with the [tab container](/refguide11/tab-container/) widget. It would reset to the first tab when returning to the page, causing data sources to reload unnecessarily and other tabs to be blocked. (Tickets 266083, 266090, 267249) 
* We fixed an issue where sorting by column did not work after using the text search on a grid. (Ticket 266400)
* We fixed an issue where an import mapping would not read JSON attribute values when a JSON attribute was preceded by another attribute with an attribute name that is a prefix. For example `StatusId` and `Status`. We also improved how JSON objects were read when one object name was a prefix of another object name. (Ticket 266571)
* We fixed an issue where leaving `Offset` or `Amount` blank in a `List operation (Range)` would cause a runtime error. (Ticket 266627)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro could crash when importing a font for an icon Collection. (Ticket 266772)
* We fixed an issue where an incorrectly configured [placeholder text](/refguide/text-box/#placeholder-text) did not show a consistency error and could result in an error during deployment. (Ticket 266923) 
* We fixed an issue on macOS where the text would get highlighted automatically and overwritten by subsequent characters while typing in the search field. (Ticket 267303)
* We fixed an issue with the notify workflow activity. The notify workflow activity will now always update the wait-for-notification activity, even when the workflow is failed, paused, or incompatible.
* We fixed an issue in the logic editors in the change object dialog where setting lists of objects through the generate dialog incorrectly showed an error.
* We fixed an issue during local development where system texts would not be updated in the application when hot reloading. They are now correctly updated without the need to fully restart the server.
* We resolved an issue where passwords could be modified directly through the `synchronize_objects` API if the API authorization had write access to the password attribute.
* We fixed an issue that caused excluded modules to be included in the **main.scss** when generating layered CSS.
* We fixed an issue where a widget configured with an incorrect type of primitive parameter did not show a consistency error and could result in an error in the client.
* We fixed the issue in modernized app explorer where pressing <kbd>Enter</kbd> on a leaf node did not open a document.
* We fixed an issue where a double-click in the modernized Runtime console did not select a row.
* We fixed the issue in the modernized Runtime console where columns were not sortable.
* We fixed the issue in the modernized App Explorer, where clicking the `Select active document` button did not scroll to the already selected document.
* We fixed an issue where after performing a rebase or cherry-pick when user did not close the push notification bar, starting with a new combination operation could end up with two visible notification bars.
* We fixed an issue where the domain model generation and overview pages creation steps in **Start with Maia** would fail when no entities are generated by Maia.
* For Oracle databases, we fixed the following:
    * An issue in OQL where using `ORDER BY` with an unlimited string in a subquery would lead to a database exception.
    * An OQL expression that casts an OQL parameter of type datetime to string raised a database exception. It now works as expected.
* We fixed an issue where pasting a view entity together with its associated persistent entity would cause a freeze and an Oops pop-up window.
* We fixed an issue with [React client](/refguide/mendix-client/react/) offline apps that caused data sources of the home page to be executed too early, causing errors because the offline system was not fully initialized.
* We fixed an issue where remote entities with decimal primary keys would cause errors on startup on existing deployments.
* We fixed the issue where the `LIKE` operator in OQL was case-sensitive in HSQLDB when used in combination with OQL functions.
* We fixed an issue where an Oops pop-up window was displayed when **Edit** > **Find** returned new JSON structure documents.
* We fixed an issue in Import/Export mapping in Studio Pro where all elements of the child array in JSON were omitted except the first.
* We fixed an issue in consumed REST services in Studio Pro where sending a request to a URL that contained invalid characters would result in an Oops pop-up window.
* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro on Mac where the domain model would allow you to add an unsupported association to an external entity.
* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro on Mac where the dialog to edit the **Call external action** microflow activity appeared to flicker.
* We fixed an issue in the domain model editor in Studio Pro where the dialog for choosing which external associations to add would show a purple external entity while the resulting entity would be non-persistable.
* We fixed an issue in the **Call external action** microflow activity in Studio Pro. After dragging this activity from the toolbox onto a microflow, Studio Pro no longer shows consistency errors about the parameter and return type.
* We now correctly set the log node name as the **node** attribute and the exception cause as the **cause** attribute for the OpenTelemetry log subscriber.
* We fixed an issue where calling the `get_license_information` while using a SALT license would cause an error.
* We fixed an issue where an interruption while fetching data would lead to model changes not being displayed properly in the new history pane.
* We fixed the refresh of commit statuses after a Push (**Local** >**Synced**) and a Pull (**On Server** > **Synced**).
* We fixed a bug in the logic editors that caused **Maia Explain for Microflows** to crash.
* We fixed an issue where new attributes of type unlimited string or datetime with default values had those default values set incorrectly on existing objects. 

### Breaking Changes
    
* Curly braces in a [placeholder text](/refguide/text-box/#placeholder-text) (for example, `{Name}`) must now be escaped with an extra opening curly brace (for example, `{{Name}`) to prevent the text from being incorrectly interpreted as a placeholder expression.
