---
title: "10.23"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.23/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 10.23 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
weight: 77
---
## 10.23.0 {#10230}

**Release date: May 28, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.23.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.23.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

* You can now use the <kbd>Back</kbd> and <kbd>Forward</kbd> mouse buttons to navigate through the history of active editors in Studio Pro—if your mouse has them. 
* We added support for retrieving the CSRF token using the new client API. You can now use `getCSRFToken` from `mx-api/session` to get the token, which is required when calling secured REST services.
* The External Database Connector now supports executing anonymous blocks on databases that allow this feature

### Improvements

* We extended the `FeedbackHelper.OpenFormFeedback` Java API to allow opening pages with multiple parameters.
* Data views are no longer needed to use page parameters when configuring [input elements](/refguide/input-widgets/), pluggable widgets [attribute properties](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types/#attribute), and [snippet calls](/refguide/snippet-call/#snippet-settings).
* We updated our Terms of Use, we recommend you to review the updated Terms of Use when installing Studio Pro.
* We added transparency to disabled toolbar button icons for better visibility.
* We made Studio Pro start faster and consume less memory by improving the efficiency of the process that downloads and handles the images of the Starter app templates.
* We added support for the dark mode to the **Create New App** page.
* We added support for Brazilian Portuguese to Studio Pro.
* The OpenAPI document of published OData services now uses OpenAPI version 3.0.4 where it used to use OpenAPI version 3.0.1.
* Maia for Pages now works with existing pages. It understands your page’s content, so you can easily ask it to add, change, or remove widgets as needed.
* In the logic editors, when inserting elements with an attached annotation into a flow, we now only make room based on the length of the inserted elements to prevent unnecessary long flows.
* We added the `com.mendix.core.conf.LicenseInfo#validateCustomerID(String)` method to the public API. This method can be used to check if a customer identity matches the one in the license of the running application. The `LicenseInfo` instance is available through `Core.getLicenseInformation()`.
* The `mx create-module-package` command now also synchronizes with and includes the managed dependencies of the module in the exported module package. This allows the module to be used in Studio Pro with Gradle synchronization disabled. The `exclude-managed-dependencies` flag can be used to disable this behavior.
* We added the option to add [extra arguments](/refguide10/preferences-dialog/#extra-arguments) to the Gradle process in the Studio Pro **Preferences**. 
    * We also added the `extra-gradle-arguments` option to MxBuild. This option can be used to pass extra arguments to the Gradle process.
* We improved the entity and member access rights validation in the modernized Entity Access Rules editor. We now display the reason when a specific right cannot be granted and check member access rights capabilities upfront.
* The modernized Entity Access Rules editor now supports viewing access rules for non-editable entities, such as System entities.
* We improved the warning pop-up shown when converting between nanoflows: the **Find Usages** button was renamed  to **Show Usages** and now shows only irreplaceable usages. 
* We improved the generation of Java code for enumerations. 

### Fixes

* We fixed a security issue related to importing modules into Studio Pro. (6.1 – CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:N/I:H/A:N – for more information see [Security Advisories](/releasenotes/security-advisories/#40592))
* In the logic editors, we fixed an issue where a warning was shown for microflows being inaccessible even though they were used in the application. (Tickets 184859, 186059, 215091, 216988)
* We fixed an issue where having a disabled and detached activity in a microflow caused the microflow to not execute the main flow. (Ticket 243133)
* We fixed an issue with microflow parameter mappings that caused an error pop-up window. (Ticket 244852)
* We fixed an issue where, when updating an association from an entity to its own specialization on an instance of the specialization, the association was set in the opposite direction. (Ticket 245140)
* We fixed the behavior of the `urlEncode` and `urlDecode` functions in the client to align with the runtime. This means that spaces are now correctly encoded as `%20` instead of `+`. `urlDecode` still supports decoding strings containing `+` to ensure backwards compatibility with strings encoded in previous versions. (Ticket 245510)
* We fixed an issue where a wrong text is shown in a dialog after languages were removed from the app. (Ticket 248967)
* We fixed an issue where an edited value was not saved when the cell lost focus (for example, when you clicked a cell to edit value in a dialog, edited it, and then clicked an arrow button to expand a value).
* We fixed issues where keyboard shortcuts were not processed correctly in the Expression editor.
* We fixed the vertical scrollbar for the data grid in the Version Selector.
* We fixed an issue where recent changes to suppression rules were not included when exporting them from the **Manage Suppression Rules** dialog.
* We fixed a potential issue related to saving user settings in the app folder when the app folder is moved or renamed.
* We fixed the way how multiline text is displayed in the **Enumerations** document.
* We fixed the issue where only local changes were displayed in the **Select App** and **Open App** dialogs instead of displaying names from the Mendix portal.
* We fixed an issue where the **Customize for dark mode** label was cut off in the Java Action editor.
* We fixed an issue in view entities in Studio Pro: when running an OQL query Studio Pro showed decimal value `0` as `0E-8` and it showed other decimal values with trailing zeroes.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro showed an exception dialog while checking the consistency of external attributes, associations and enumerations.
* In the logic editors, we fixed a possible error dialog when starting a remote debugging session.
* In the logic editors, we fixed a bug that caused empty working areas to not render correctly.
* We fixed an issue that caused all the widgets to shift to the right in Design mode on React Client enabled.
* We fixed an issue where enumeration captions did not return the caption in the default language, if no caption was available for the requested language code. 
* We fixed an issue where exporting a module gave an **Unknown dependency synchronization** error. This occurred if the module contained managed dependencies which have both JVM and Android versions, such as Google Guava.
* We fixed an issue where metadata got corrupted when special characters were present.
* We fixed an issue where the **Revert change** option was missing for deleted files in the **Changes** pane.
* We fixed an issue with offline mode, where data sources did not react to updates of attributes used in XPath constraints.

### Known Issues

* There is a known issue with the React client where locally re-running an app with runtime-only changes does not properly apply those changes. (Tickets 253539, 253932, 253176, 253842, 254100)
* There is a known issue with the React client where the debugger would not reconnect when restarting an app.