---
title: "10.24"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/10.24/
description: "The release notes for Mendix Studio Pro 10.24 (including all patches) with details on new features, bug fixes, and known issues."
lts: true
weight: 76
---

{{% alert color="info" %}}
This is the [LTS](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#lts) version 10 release for apps in production.
{{% /alert %}}

## 10.24.11 {#102411}

**Release date: November 3, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.11" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.11 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Fixes
    
* We fixed an issue where incompatible React client widgets did not display an error when they were nested inside a pluggable widget. (Ticket 253896)
* We fixed an issue where JSON Import mappings stopped finding objects. (Ticket 258507)
* We fixed an issue where a wait-for-timer activity could get stuck when its workflow was upgraded while the activity was active. (Ticket 263288)
* We fixed a migration issue when going from 10.24 to 11.x that attempted to recreate an already existing column in a table in an offline app database.
* We fixed a bug where the JavaScript Action code editor would overlap with the errors pane after resizing it.
* We improved Studio Pro memory usage in operations that involve processing the project's structure (for example find usages and errors check).
* We fixed the following bugs in the version selector:
    * When opening a widget .mpk the file was kept on hold even after closing the dialog, preventing it to be renamed or opened.
    * Closing the "Version not found" dialog launched the selected Studio Pro version instead of just closing the dialog.
    * The Studio Pro versions were not displayed with the correct format.
* We reduced the size of the Studio Pro installer on Windows.

### Deprecations
    
* We dropped support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by the vendors:
    * MariaDB 10.5
    * Microsoft SQL Server 2019
    * MySQL 8.0

## 10.24.10 {#102410}

**Release date: October 30, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.10" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.10 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements
    
* We added support for Oracle 23.
* We now avoid resetting the failed login count during login when it is already zero. (Ticket 260858)
* We increased the default size of popup dialogs that contain expression fields to allow for easier editing of the expressions.
* We have optimized the page exports for the React and Native clients. This can decrease the exported page size by up to 35%, making the resulting bundle a lot smaller.

### Fixes
    
* We fixed a non-fatal crash in the studio pro installer when the installer is checking if the dotnet version is already installed or not. (Ticket 253218)
* We fixed an issue in the Studio Pro XPath constraint parser that incorrectly allowed associations and associated objects to be compared to Boolean values or empty, while that was not supported on the runtime. The following constructs will now lead to consistency errors:
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation = false()]`
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation = empty]`
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation/MyModule.MyEntity = false()]`
    * `[MyModule.MyAssociation/MyModule.MyEntity = empty]`

    (Tickets 254830 and 258029)
* We fixed an issue in the Domain Model Editor where navigating to a specific OQL view entity with a consistency error from the Error pane would result in an error if the "Show View Entity" option was disabled. (Ticket 256365)
* We fixed an issue where trying to delete a huge number (millions) of anonymous sessions during startup would cause out of memory errors. We now delete sessions and anonymous users in batches to avoid this problem. (Ticket 257047)
* We fixed an issue where the React client would not get bundled when deploying for Eclipse. (Ticket 258470)
* We fixed an issue with Offline PWAs when using the React client where changes to the application would not be shown to the user without clearing the cache. (Ticket 260673)
* We fixed a "no such column" error when synchronizing a file or image derived entity which itself is derived by another entity with an offline synchronization mode. (Ticket 261700)
* We fixed an issue in the Studio Pro XPath constraint parser with the treatment of `true` and `false` . These are now treated the same as their function equivalents (`true()` and `false()` respectively).
* We fixed a memory leak that occurred when editing an action of a Microflow.
* We fixed an issue in offline apps that could result in data validations of microflow calls not being properly handled.
* We fixed an issue preventing opening apps passed as startup arguments for Studio Pro in MacOS.
* We fixed an issue where a drop-down list in a Reference Selector reopened automatically after closing.
* We fixed an issue where duplicate responsive navigation profiles could not be removed.
* We fixed an issue with using a dash `-` in the *Organization Name* of a pluggable widget.
* We fixed an issue where building an app in a different culture would result in decimal numbers changing their decimal separator.

## 10.24.9 {#10249}

**Release date: October 6, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.9" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.9 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements
    
* We improved the rendering performance of repeating widgets in Design mode, by only rendering a single repeat for widgets within a snippet call, parent layout, or nested within another repeating widget.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue in the React client where autofocus was incorrectly triggered by dynamically loaded widgets, causing combo boxes that use a widget with a dynamic source in their custom content to unexpectedly lose focus and close. (Ticket 254768)
* We fixed an issue where **Import Mappings** using 'Find an object (by key)' or 'Call a microflow' did not create an object for valid input. (Tickets 255130, 260462)
* We fixed an issue where Node.js would run out of memory during the bundling process of very large, complex applications using the React client. (Ticket 257472)
* In the logic editors, we fixed the zoom in and zoom out behaviors of error-handling icons. (Ticket 258424)
* We improved the performance of the tree control that allows you to select elements for **Message Definitions**, **Import Mappings**, and **Export Mappings**. (Ticket 258606)
* We fixed an issue where a Java action could still cause compilation errors, even if excluded from the project. (Ticket 259414)
* We fixed an issue where, when there were no conflicting changes, users were not properly informed and metadata was missing due to cherry picking.
* We fixed a few memory leaks in the React client, most notably when closing and open pages.
* We fixed a memory leak which occurred when re-opening a project, or switching branches in Studio Pro.
* We fixed an issue for **Export Mappings** where a recursive XSD structure was not properly marked as invalid in cases where more than 1000 mandatory elements were auto-selected.
* We fixed an issue in Studio Pro where restarting Windows with an open app and then opening the app again would result in a warning dialog window about the app already being open.
* We fixed an issue where task queue tasks were not able to mark themselves as completed after execution.

## 10.24.8 {#10248}

**Release date: September 24, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.8" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.8 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements
    
* When tracing is enabled, the maximum depth of microflow calls and the maximum number of loops that are reported can be configured using the `mendix.tracing.max.microflow.depth` and `mendix.tracing.max.loop.iteration` JVM properties. The default value of these properties are `10`. The microflow call depth is calculated per runtime node and does not take into account calls made into other Mendix runtimes through REST/WebServices calls.

### Fixes

* **10.24.7 Fix** — We fixed a critical issue in 10.24.7 (only) where application startup would fail when upgrading a database originally created with a Mendix version before 10.17 and using foreign key constraints.
* We fixed an issue where changing a MxAdmin user's name in Studio Pro does not result in changing MxAdmin user's name in database. (Ticket 255505) 
* We fixed an issue where SVG images would load with incorrect dimensions. (Ticket 258901)
* When using Oracle, we no longer use `dbms.lob_substr` in the generated SQL for enumeration attributes with values shorter than 2000 characters. (Ticket 259283)
* We fixed an issue where database synchronization failed on SQL Server when a specialization of `System.User` was removed and there was still an `owner` or `changedBy` reference from an instance of `System.User` or a different specialization of it to an instance of the specialization being removed. 

* We fixed an issue affecting file saving which made named files appear untitled. Previewed file names now work as intended.
* We fixed an issue in the Create object activity which would fail when creating an instance of a remote non-persistable entity in a microflow.
* We fixed an issue in consumed REST services where choosing an OpenAPI contract without any operations would result in an error.
* We fixed an issue where a warning was logged on startup about an already registered Jetty gauge when multiple listening addresses are specified. The connection metrics for Jetty are added per listening address and they now contain a tag `port` with the port number and a tag `host` if a host is specified. This is applicable to the metrics `jetty.connections.bytes.in`, `jetty.connections.bytes.out`, `jetty.connections.current`, `jetty.connections.max`, `jetty.connections.messages.in`, `jetty.connections.messages.out`, and `jetty.connections.request`. Be aware of the fact that there are usually two listening addresses when you specify **Open to current machine** for Runtime port security, for example 127.0.0.1 and ::1.

## 10.24.7 {#10247}

**Release date: September 19, 2025**

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
We have retracted version 10.24.7 due to an issue in database schema migration. We advise customers not to deploy applications with this version, and to upgrade their apps to versions [10.24.8](#10248) and above.
{{% /alert %}}

### Improvements

* When either the `X-Forwarded-Proto` or `X-Forwarded-Scheme` header is set to `http`, cookies will now be set without the `secure` attribute, even if the `ApplicationRootUrl` is set to a secure URL.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that could result in the error *Duplicate objects are not allowed* in the console log when synchronizing offline. Please note that the root cause of this issue is the use of background synchronization, which is [not recommended for offline apps](/refguide/synchronize/#background-sync). (Ticket 235130, 251202)
* We fixed an issue in published OData services where requests that filtered based on associated data combined with 'and' would receive a response containing data that did not match the filter. (Ticket 241825)
* We fixed an issue where retrieving from database in nanoflows failed when using many-to-many associations with XPath constraint going over an association. (Ticket 253996)
* We fixed an issue where an expression could not be set when the number of available variables was too large, causing the variable list to expand and block access to the expression editor. (Ticket 254957)
* We fixed an issue where an **Oops** pop-up window was displayed when the page variables button was clicked in structure mode for a page template. (Ticket 255394)
* We fixed an issue where the combo box widget failed to render when the **Store** value is configured with a page or snippet variable. (Ticket 256493)
* We fixed an error where apps would attempt to clear their local cache while developing locally when not running in a secure context (such as **localhost**). (Ticket 257026)
* We fixed an issue where doing a hot reload while using the React client would lead the to deployment spinner spinning infinitely in some projects. (Tickets 257026, 257859)
* We fixed an issue where a foreign key constraint violation in the database could result in a `NullPointerException`. (Ticket 258430)
* We fixed an issue where some customers experienced problems logging into their native mobile apps after upgrading to Studio Pro 10.24. The app would enter an authentication loop and return the error: *Could not create a session because the server responded with 401 (Unauthorized)*. (Ticket 258696)
* We fixed an issue where passing an empty enumeration value to a microflow executed in a task queue would cause the execution to fail. (Ticket 259170)
* We fixed an issue where data grid action buttons with empty parameters would cause runtime errors when calling microflows.
* We fixed an issue for export mappings where a user would clear a checkbox in the 'Select schema elements' tree structure, but not all children elements were deselected.
* We fixed an issue where a *404 - file not found for file: .well-known%2Fappspecific%2Fcom.chrome.devtools.json* error was shown in the Studio Pro console when opening a React app in Chrome with dev tools open. This error was caused by Chrome's automatic workspace folders feature.
* We fixed an issue with the client parser API where the `groups` option would also require the `places` option.
* We fixed an issue where previous pages would not load in the React client after closing a page that was opened from a pop-up window.
* We fixed an issue where a *Manifest: unknown 'display' value ignored* warning was shown in the browser console when opening a non-PWA React app.
* We fixed an issue where pages with a mix of persistent and non-persistent entity parameters did not load properly the first time.
* We fixed an issue affecting file saving which made named files appear untitled. Previewed file names now work as intended.

## 10.24.6 {#10246}

**Release date: September 11, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.6" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.6 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features
    
* The **Changes** pane will now automatically be updated if files on the disk are changed outside of Studio Pro.

### Improvements
    
* We added support for converting [data grid 1 columns](/refguide/columns/) (ones configured over reference sets) into [data grid 2 columns](/appstore/modules/data-grid-2/#columns).
* Pushing commits to the server is no longer possible if there is nothing to push.

### Fixes

* We fixed a rare issue where an error pop-up window could appear if a user attempted a version control operation while Git optimization was running for an extended period of time. (Ticket 246741)
* We fixed an issue where an **Oops** pop-up window appeared during deployment if multiple pages using the same snippet are processed simultaneously. (Ticket 254648)
* We fixed an issue where a consistency error for offline profiles ("Specialization Entity should have an offline synchronization mode as its generalization Entity has an offline synchronization mode") was wrongly reported. (Ticket 255323)
* We fixed an issue on offline-associated entities pertaining to `startsWith`, which is not a function error in synchronize actions. (Ticket 257346)
* We fixed an issue where database synchronization would fail when all of the following occurred during the same deployment: (Ticket 258046)

    * An association in the database contained any dangling references
    * Foreign key constraints were newly enabled
    * The association storage was changed to or from being a direct association 

* We fixed an issue where an **Oops** pop-up window was displayed when switching the data source type of a combo box.
* We fixed an issue when using file dialogs while the persisted file, directory, or drive no longer exists.
* We fixed an issue for **Export Mappings** where it was incorrectly possible to clear the **Message Definition** root element from the **Select schema elements** tree structure.
* We fixed an issue for **Import Mappings** and **Export Mappings** where a user would select a checkbox in the **Select schema elements** tree structure 5 levels deep or more, and the tree failed to expand itself to show children items. This made it possible to not select required schema elements.
* We fixed an issue for **Export Mappings** where XSD extension attributes checkboxes in the **Select schema elements** tree structure were incorrectly not selected when the user selected the checkbox of their parent attribute.
* We fixed an issue where importing modules containing files with paths longer than the maximum length failed to throw an error message. It will fix these support issues:
    * An issue where you cannot import the Nanoflow Commons to 10.6.x_Maintenance branch line. (Ticket 227963)
    * An issue where importing the Nanoflow Commons module is impossible. (Ticket 234259)
* We fixed an issue where the **Push** button is disabled after opening an app with local commits while auto-fetch is disabled.
* We fixed an issue where user gets an **Oops** pop-up window when creating a non-versioned app.

### Deprecations
    
* From November 1, 2025, we will drop support for the following database versions that are no longer supported by the vendors:

    * MariaDB 10.5
    * Microsoft SQL Server 2019
    * MySQL 8.0

## 10.24.5 {#10245}

**Release date: September 8, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.5" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.5 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements
    
* We improved performance when summarizing conflict information for large documents.

### Fixes

* Dependencies for a portable version of Studio Pro (WebView2, OpenJDK, and Gradle) are now placed inside the application's installation folder. Installing or removing a specific version of portable Studio Pro no longer affects the dependencies of other installed versions. (Ticket 244240)
* We fixed an issue for Import Mappings and Export Mappings that caused checkboxes in the **Select schema elements** tree structure to be set incorrectly. This happened for XML schema inheritance and choice elements. (Ticket 249795)
* We now allow filtering over reference sets for database data sources, previously allowed only for list views. (Ticket 251833)
* We fixed an issue where an entity with **Synchronization Config** set to **Never** was removed from the list view or Data grid 2 when **Synchronize All** was triggered (due to excessive cache deletion). For more information on synchronization, see [Offline Synchronization](/refguide/mobile/building-efficient-mobile-apps/offlinefirst-data/synchronization/). (Ticket 253629)
* We fixed an issue in Import Mappings where object properties were not connected correctly to mapped attributes, resulting in empty import values. (Tickets 254351, 256716, 256726)
* We fixed an issue where database synchronization sometimes unnecessarily recreated the uniqueness constraint on the primary key mapping table of an external entity. (Ticket 255223)
* We fixed an issue where an enumeration with a value or a caption set to `com` resulted in a compilation error when you tried running the app. We have also added this to the [reserved words](/refguide/enumerations/#name) list. (Ticket 255976)
* We fixed the **Tab Container** widget to avoid loading hidden tab content when the conditional visibility expression refers to a page parameter. (Ticket 256717)
* We fixed an issue in external OData entity's object initialization where specifying the value for a key via a microflow expression failed.
* We fixed an issue where a user was asked to provide Git credentials for repository optimization.
* We fixed an error which appeared when viewing widget properties for widgets that needed to be updated.
* We improved the authentication mechanism in Studio Pro. It fixes the following issues:
    * It fixes the issue where Studio Pro on macOS asked the user credentials to get access to Keychain (passwords) for a TeamServer project.
    * It fixes the issue where the sign in dialog was displayed when committing a change in Studio Pro which was already open.
    * It fixes the PMP Git issue where wrong credentials were fetched from the Windows credentials store.

## 10.24.4 {#10244}

**Release date: August 19, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.4" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.4 from the Marketplace" %}}

## Fixes

* <a id="fix-debugger-reconnect"></a>We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.18/#ki-debugger-reconnect) where the debugger did not reconnect when restarting an app using the React client.
* <a id="fix-debugger-runtime-only"></a> We fixed a [known issue](/releasenotes/studio-pro/10.18/#ki-debugger-runtime-only) when locally re-running with runtime-only changes while using the React client. They are now properly loaded by the runtime.
* We added the refresh functionality for the Marketplace content when a session times out. The reload button will now close the details page and refresh the search tab view to ensure the latest information is displayed.
* We fixed an issue in offline synchronization (using the **Synchronize unsynchronized objects** and **Synchronize all** actions) that resulted in error log statements and *System.SynchronizationError* objects containing a text *Changing member failed for security reasons, no write access for changed member*. That was caused by the offline client trying to synchronize a change for a member that was inaccessible by that user.
* We improved the exception handling of Studio Pro when necessary .NET components are missing with a user-friendly message instead of an error pop-up.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro crashed due to an XPath constraint being too long or complex to parse correctly. Now a consistency error message is shown instead.
* We upgraded React Native version to 0.77.3. This addresses an issue that caused the app to stop working after a reload.
* We fixed an issue when locally re-running with runtime-only changes while using the React client. They are now properly loaded by the runtime.

### Breaking Changes

* We removed the numeric part of IDs in the HTML and added `l` or `p` prefixes for layouts and pages. For example, `89.PCP.MyApps_Overview.snippetCall4` will now be `p.PCP.MyApps_Overview.snippetCall4` instead. The purpose of those numeric parts was to ensure uniqueness of the IDs, however, they are actually not needed here as a page and layout already have unique identifiers. Furthermore, their pseudo-random nature meant that rebuilding an application resulted in more changes than needed, limiting the cachability of Mendix applications.

## 10.24.3 {#10243}

**Release date: August 7, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.3" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.3 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We now remove web service user sessions if they are expired.
* The navigation tree menu is no longer tagged with **aria-hidden** when it is still visible.
* Menu buttons on the navigation menu are now reachable when they are visible.
* We added **aria-expanded**, **aria-haspopup** and **aria-controls** attributes to the navigation tree where relevant.
* We upgraded the ONNX dependency to version 1.22.0.

### Fixes

* We fixed a customer-specific issue where they were unable to build using MxBuild, while they were able to use the standardized Studio Pro build. (Ticket 247544)
* We fixed an issue in the logic editors where a caption from the **Show Message** activity did not update when switching between languages. (Tickets 247962, 250137)
* We fixed an issue where the **Back** and **Forward** navigation feature did not work with styling-related files. (Ticket 252248)
* We fixed an issue that prevented updated workflows from being queued for execution when Mendix Runtime crashed during startup. (Ticket 253424)
* We fixed a conversion issue that occurred when upgrading apps from 9.24. Specifically, arguments of **Show a page**, **Call a microflow**, or **Call a nanoflow** [event actions](/refguide/on-click-event/#actions) were affected where parameter mappings changed to a different selection variable on the same page. (Ticket 253494)
* We fixed an issue where a loop in a microflow did not execute if the first activity was disabled. (Ticket 253542)
* We fixed an issue where some log nodes were not be available in the **Set Log Levels** dialog when running a Mendix app locally from Studio Pro. (Tickets 255330, 255510, 255776)
* We fixed an error that occurred in native offline apps when upgrading from Mendix 10.12 or below.
* We added the ability to remove Mendix Studio Pro versions directly from the Version Selector interface when traditional uninstallation failed due to corrupted Windows registry paths, giving users a manual cleanup option. 
* We fixed an issue where two different error messages overlapped in the **Choose Branch line** pane after signing in and out.
* We fixed an issue where new files created during a rebase were not included in the commit.
* We fixed an issue where you were unable to commit unsaved documents while rebasing.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro crashed when opening the **History** dialog if the metadata was corrupted
* In the Dojo client, we fixed a pop-up window resizing issue that occurred upon interacting with a combobox widget inside the popup on mobile devices.
* We fixed a conversion issue affecting sorting in the **Gallery** widget, specifically when upgrading the data widgets Marketplace module to version 3.0.0 or above.
* We introduced a set of pre-commit checks to ensure generated content is up to date before committing. This prevents generated content from being updated without any user input after committing, which limited the user from completing other version control operations (like a **Pull** from the server).

### Known Issues

* In the React client, re-running an app locally with runtime-only changes does not properly apply those changes. (Tickets 253176, 253539, 253842, 253932, 254100)
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-runtime-only) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-runtime-only).
* In the React client, the debugger does not reconnect when restarting an app.
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-reconnect) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-reconnect).

## 10.24.2 {#10242}

**Release date: July 22, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.2" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.2 from the Marketplace" %}}

### Improvements

* We improved the startup performance of task queues. Pending tasks are now validated when they are executed instead of at startup.
* We improved the notification system to also alert users of third-party antivirus software (in addition to Microsoft Defender) that using antivirus software may impact system performance.
* We translated the **Sign In** dialog.
* We improved the quality of Korean and Chinese translations for error, warning, and deprecation messages.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where navigating to a screen already in the navigation history caused unexpected behavior when using the **Side Bar** layout. (Ticket 232247)
* We fixed an issue where closing a page from a microflow triggered data source retrievals on that page. (Ticket 239900)
* We fixed an issue where uploading a SVG image caused an error. (Ticket 244585)
* We fixed an issue where the runtime log levels were not restored correctly when restarting the app from Studio Pro, in cases where the runtime had been stopped earlier due to the trial version timeout. (Ticket 251399)
* We fixed an issue where, during module import, the widget version check was incorrectly comparing different widgets. (Ticket 252131)
* We fixed an issue that caused a page to crash during navigation when using a Data View widget in the page with a nanoflow.(Tickets 252234, 254377, 254487)
* We fixed an issue with MxBuild that reported successful build before the build process had finished.  (Ticket 252729)
* We fixed an issue in the logic editors on macOS where pressing <kbd>Command</kbd> + <kbd>C</kbd> failed to copy the selected activity to clipboard and instead changed its caption. (Ticket 253384)
* We fixed a recurring error being caused by showing conditional hidden properties when configuring pluggable widgets through the **Properties** pane, such as Data Grid 2 columns. (Tickets 254074, 254426, 254632, 254637)
* In the logic editors, we now correctly update the toolbox when the exposed Java or JavaScript action info changes.
* In the logic editors, we fixed an issue where the sequence flow control points overlapped with the connection points unintentionally in some cases.
* We fixed an issue when there are some files left after aborting a merge, cherry-pick, or revert operation on a commit. That caused an ERROR in STP. Now the files are reset to the initial state after aborting any of the mentioned operations.
* We now save a file name when saving a document offline.
* We fixed an issue with online entities used in offline apps where associations from online entities to offline entities resulted in errors while saving data and calling microflows (errors like 
`java.lang.NumberFormatException: For input string: "GUID:[...]"`).
* We fixed an issue where in some scenarios, the import of a module containing widgets overwrote the widgets in the project without checking the version.
* We fixed an issue in the **App Selector** where users encountered crashes and error messages while trying to **Choose Branch Line** of an app after switching between different user accounts.
* We fixed an issue where `dbms_lob.substr` was unnecessarily applied to limited String attributes when running SQL queries in Oracle.
* We now correctly render the warning message for the association storage in the association properties dialog. This was not word-wrapped, which caused part of the text to be unreadable.
* We fixed an issue with Maia for Pages where it did not properly take the previous API output into account, which could lead to errors during subsequent requests in the same conversation.
* We fixed an issue where selecting **Resolve conflict using server** for a conflicted file did not solve the conflict.
* We fixed an issue with the React client logging a message to the console to download the React Devtools when opening an app locally.
* When upgrading to a data widgets module version 3.0.0 or above, we fixed an issue where the configuration of drop-down filter settings for associations on Data Grid 2 columns was not converted correctly to the drop-down filter widget of the new setup during Data Grid 2 widget updates.

### Known Issues

* In the React client, re-running an app locally with runtime-only changes does not properly apply those changes. (Tickets 253176, 253539, 253842, 253932, 254100)
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-runtime-only) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-runtime-only).
* In the React client, the debugger does not reconnect when restarting an app.
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-reconnect) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-reconnect).

## 10.24.1 {#10241}

**Release date: July 4, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.1" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.1 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

* We added support for access keys in context menus for commonly used editors: domain model, microflow, page, mapping, and workflow.

### Improvements

* We improved the order of the items in the **Go To** dialog in Studio Pro when searching, to make more relevant items appear higher in the list. (Ticket 221215)
* In the logic editors, we now include **Change Object** actions when finding entity usages. (Ticket 249539)
* We made the following improvements in the logic editors: 
    * When resizing an element, connected annotations are now moved the same way as other elements.
    * When expanding loops after inserting elements into them, connected objects are now also moved aside.
* We relaxed the restriction that entities with an online synchronization mode could not refer to entities with an offline synchronization mode. It now only prevents XPath constraints in pages and nanoflows that mix entities with online and offline synchronization modes allowing more modeling possibilities.
* We enhanced the version control portfix functionality by integrating the Git CLI to perform this operation. This update optimizes the process and improves the overall stability of the portfix functionality.
* We improved the Java API for implementing CSP in modules. The configuration API was expanded with `getHeader` and `getCustomHeaders` methods for interacting with custom headers and we added a CSP API to the `Core` class that contains the `getTemplate`, `getNonce`, `hasNonce`, and `addHeader` methods.
* We updated the bundled Node.js from v20 to v22.
* We defined a list of associations: `System.WorkflowActivityRecord_Actor`, `System.WorkflowActivityRecord_TaskAssignedUsers`, and `System.WorkflowActivityRecord_TaskTargetedUsers`. Non-persistable objects referencing the current user through any of these associations will no longer be prevented from being garbage collected.
* When upgrading to a data widgets module version 3.0.0 or above, we fixed an issue where grid-wide filtering configuration was not converting correctly to the new setup when filter widgets were wrapped (for example, in a container) during gallery or data grid 2 widget updates.

### Fixes

* In the microflow editor, we now correctly show the Continue error handler on **Call microflow** actions. (Ticket 247917)
* We fixed an issue where trying to auto-commit external entities threw an exception. After this fix, all external entities will be excluded from being auto-committed. (Ticket 250591)
* We fixed an issue for **Import Mappings** and **Export Mappings** that caused checkboxes in the **Select schema elements** tree structure to be set incorrectly. (Tickets 251136, 250682, 227036, 250266)
* We fixed an issue in consumed OData services where clients reading large amounts of data led to errors related to database connections. (Ticket 251379)
* We fixed an issue where an attempt to retrieve more than 500 external objects by ID at once failed. For example, when retrieving many external objects by association. (Ticket 251911)
* We fixed an issue in offline synchronization that could result in error log statements and System.SynchronizationError objects containing a text *Changing member failed for security reasons. No write access for changed member*, which was caused by the offline client trying to synchronize a change for a member that was inaccessible by that user.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro on MacOS crashed if the Java Development Kit was not installed.
* We fixed an issue where conflicting versions of userlib jars did not give a consistency warning if the project had no managed dependencies configured.
* We fixed an issue where the tracing service name configuration could not be changed.
* We fixed an issue where some OpenTelemetry configurations did not apply.
* We fixed an issue where HTML anchor and area elements without a *href* attribute interrupted the autofocus behavior, not allowing users to focus to the next item in order.
* We fixed an issue in the React client, where autofocus did not work when navigating to another page.

### Known Issues

* In the React client, re-running an app locally with runtime-only changes does not properly apply those changes. (Tickets 253176, 253539, 253842, 253932, 254100)
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-runtime-only) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-runtime-only).
* In the React client, the debugger does not reconnect when restarting an app.
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-reconnect) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-reconnect).

## 10.24.0 {#10240}

**Release date: June 26, 2025**

{{% button color="info" href="https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/10.24.0" text="Go to Marketplace" title="Download version 10.24.0 from the Marketplace" %}}

### New Features

* We updated the filter button in the **Go to...** dialog to show whether there are active filters.
* In the logic editors, pressing <kbd>Shift</kbd> while dragging objects from the **App Explorer**, **Toolbox** or the toolbar will disable snapping the objects to other objects.
* The feature to access online data in offline apps is now generally available. For more information, see [Offline-First Data](/refguide10/mobile/building-efficient-mobile-apps/offlinefirst-data/#intro)
* We changed **port fix** to **cherry pick** to be more aligned with git and added recognition of cherry pick and revert operations into the topbar.
* We enabled native mobile builds for PMP customers.

### Improvements

* We added error logging when a page fails to be loaded in the React client when navigating to it. This can happen when a page includes a widget with a corrupted bundle. (Ticket 245516)
* We integrated the modernized access rules editor into the entity **Properties** pane.
* When updating pluggable widgets, Studio Pro will now try to preserve the values of properties that change type between versions. This is done when [the property types are compatible](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/pluggable-widgets-property-types-10/#converting-properties).
* We improved Maia for Pages to support the [Charts](/appstore/widgets/charts/), [Data Grid 2](/appstore/modules/data-grid-2/), [Image](/appstore/widgets/image/), and [Combo Box](/appstore/widgets/combobox/) widgets, provided they are already installed in Studio Pro.
* We made various improvements in the logic editors:
    * We added the option to hold the <kbd>Shift</kbd> key to display connection points on hover.
    * Making an element smaller automatically repositions its connected elements to preserve the width of the sequence flows between them. 
    * When inserting elements into a flow, connected elements and unconnected elements in the same container are now moved to make space.
* We bundled OpenTelemetry agent jar with Studio Pro. It can be found under `runtime/agents/opentelemetry-javaagent.jar`.
* We provided the  **Enable Tracing** option to enable runtime tracing in Studio Pro. It can be accessed through **App Settings**. For more information, see the [Minimal Configuration](/refguide10/tracing-in-runtime/#min-configuration) section in *Tracing*.
* We no longer close the response writer of custom request handlers, if an asynchronous request is started. With this change it is possible to implement asynchronous request handlers.
* We implemented an OpenTelemetry agent extension that provides default settings. It can be found under `runtime/agents/mendix-opentelemetry-agent-extension.jar`.
* We now add consistency warnings if there are multiple versions of the same Java dependency in your app.
* When importing a module, widget, solution package or when starting a new app from a template, we now prevent the package from unpacking content to undesired directories. The user can still choose to extract the rest of the package.
* We now highlight an access rule that is opened from the **Changes** or **Error** pane in the modernized entity access rules editor instead of directly opening it.
* We improved error reporting for React client. Now you can see JS actions and widgets related errors directly in Studio Pro without having to open application logs.
* We log a warning when starting an app if there are still file documents on the local file system which were created before Mendix 5.12. Make sure all these files are migrated before upgrading your app to Mendix 11, as apps with these files will not start anymore under that version. Files are migrated automatically in the background when running apps on Mendix versions from 8.14.0.
* The Chinese, Korean, and Japanese versions of the Studio Pro UI are now in General Availability. Please see [documentation](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide10/preferences-dialog/#language) for more information.

### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where hidden pluggable widget properties were not reset correctly. This resulted in translations that caused widget update notifications, missing translations in Data Grid 2, and unused properties creating consistency errors in **File Uploader**. This fix ensures that these properties are reset when hidden with default values, and applied only when they are used. (Tickets 233401, 248682) 
* We fixed an issue where Safari extensions broke the Dojo client. (Ticket 246247)
* We fixed the issue where the size of the offline database was not reduced enough after a sign-out operation. (Ticket 247029)
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro closed after a user logged in. (Ticket 248086)
* We fixed a caching issue for React applications that had precaching enabled. (Ticket 250116)
* We fixed an issue where enumeration values with the name *Core* caused compilation errors. (Ticket 250532)
* We fixed an issue that native apps upgraded from prior versions to Mendix 10.19-10.23 got an error that prevented the native app to start.
* We fixed an issue where the **Show** button did not work in dialogs when selecting an entity.
* We fixed an issue in the React client where local reruns hung after making changes to a recursive nanoflow.
* We fixed an issue with using JavaScript actions in a protected module when using the React client.
* We fixed an issue where an [association source](/refguide10/association-source/) in a data grid or template grid stopped displaying data after previously shown data was cleared due to an unavailable context object. (Ticket 250338, 250479)  
* We fixed an issue where the **Mendix Home** button in **Open Global Navigation** redirected you to **My Apps** instead of the home page.
* We fixed the text *Renaming* that was also shown when adding a new document, instead we will display *Checking name*.
* We fixed an error that occurred in the Published OData Service document when changing the documents properties.
* We fixed an issue where Studio Pro closed when adding an SVG file to the **Image Collection** document.
* We fixed an issue in the Consumed REST Service document where an error was displayed after pressing **Send** for specific requests. This issue occurred when receiving empty content for a request that was already connected to an entity before.
* We fixed an issue in the domain model editor where an unexpected exception closed Studio Pro rather than showing the exception in a dialog.
* We fixed an issue in OQL view entities where Studio Pro showed the type of the **AutoNumber** column as **Number**. It now shows it as **Long**.
* In the logic editors, we fixed the following issues:
    * We fixed an issue where an error pop-up window was shown when dragging items from the toolbar into the working area of the editor.
    * We fixed an issue where a parameter was connected to an activity causing Studio Pro to crash.
    * We fixed an issue where the **Change Variable** action could be added through Maia for a variable that could not be changed. For already existing erroneous actions, we now show a consistency error instead of a pop-up window.
    * We fixed an issue that caused incorrect placement of flows and events when adding a **Decision** through the Logic Recommender.
* We fixed an issue in offline apps that caused a query error if access rules restricted access to certain attributes of a generalized entity in an inheritance hierarchy.
* We fixed an issue where microflows tried to use online data in native pages which did not allow for such usage.
* We fixed an issue where converting a nanoflow to a microflow did not trigger a warning when the nanoflow was used in a native page or layout.

### Deprecations

* We deprecated the [Document templates](/refguide10/document-templates/) and the **Generate Document** actions. 
* We deprecated the following methods of the class `com.mendix.core.actionmanagement.internal.InternalCoreAction`: `setContext(IContext)`, `addDatavalidationFeedback(IMendixIdentifier, Map<String, String>)`, `addDataValidationFeedback(DataValidationInfo)`, `handleConcurrentExecution()`, `setEventObjects(List<IMendixObject>)`, `getMetaInfo()`, `setMetaInfo(JSONObject)`, `setActionName(String)`, `getException()`, `setException(Exception)`, `getState()`, `setState(ActionState)`, `setAllowsConcurrentExecution(Boolean)`, `clone()`. There is no replacement as these method were meant for internal usage only.

### Known Issues

* In the React client, re-running an app locally with runtime-only changes does not properly apply those changes. (Tickets 253176, 253539, 253842, 253932, 254100)
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-runtime-only) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-runtime-only).
* In the React client, the debugger does not reconnect when restarting an app.
    * Fixed in [10.24.4](#fix-debugger-reconnect) and [11.1.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/11.1/#fix-debugger-reconnect).
