---
title: "2018 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2018"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2018/
description: "2018 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 8
numberless_headings: true
---

## December 2018

### December 17, 2018

#### Improvements

We have noticed that when searching in the App Store (via the **Search Mendix** search bar), users frequently use keywords like **Mendix**, **Modeler**, **Desktop**, and **Download** as well as different Desktop Modeler versions. The search results did not provide the expected results based on these keywords (as in, they did not show the Modeler download page). With this update, it is now possible to search for the Modeler and all of its versions in the **Search Mendix** search bar, which will redirect you to the [Desktop Modeler page](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro/) in the Mendix Marketplace.

## October 2018

### October 1, 2018

#### SAP OData Connector 4.0

 This version of the [SAP OData Connector](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/74525/) allows you to use the destination services of SAP Cloud Platform. This simplifies configuration, authentication and endpoint management when integrating your application, running in SAP Cloud Platform, with SAP back end services. See [SAP Destination Service](/developerportal/deploy/sap-cloud-platform/sap-destination-service/).

The following authentication types are currently supported in SAP Destination Services:

* PrincipalPropagation authentication and ProxyType on-premise (Connectivity Service/Cloud Connector/On premise back end)
* Oauth2SALMAssertion authentication (For Neo Platform apps)
* Basic and None authentication for public back ends

#### SAP Leonardo Machine Learning Foundation Connector Version 1.0.0

This new connector allows you to consume Leonardo Machine learning services from both API Business Hub and SAP Cloud Platform by adding activities to your Mendix model.

The SAP Leonardo Machine Learning Foundation Connector is available in the App Store here: https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/107221/.

#### SAP Fiori Styling

The existing SAP Blank app template has been replaced by a new Fiori Blank app template. This new Fiori Blank app template has a new Fiori UI Package included. This is based on Atlas UI, which means that you can use either the Web Modeler or Desktop Modeler to build applications which give the SAP Fiori UI experience.

#### Breaking Changes

The new **SAP OData Connector** will break existing projects which are using the SAP Cloud Connector. The SAP OData Connector no longer supports the “Use Cloud Connector” attribute. This is now embedded in the destination service configuration. See [SAP Destination Service](/developerportal/deploy/sap-cloud-platform/sap-destination-service/) for more details.

