---
title: "2019 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2019"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2019/
description: "2019 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 8
numberless_headings: true
---

## November 2019

### November 14, 2019

#### Improvements

We are invested in maintaining Mendix Marketplace content to make it easier for you to find and use the widgets and modules that you need. To that end, we have cleaned up old App Store content where Mendix support is no longer possible and changed the support level from **Platform support** to **Community support**.

For more information on these support levels, see the [Marketplace Content Support](/appstore/marketplace-content-support/) section of *Marketplace Overview*.

### November 6, 2019

#### Improvements

* You can now subscribe to receive emails when new versions of your favorite App Store content are published.

## October 2019

### October 23, 2019

#### New Features

You can now create [user groups](/appstore/home-page/#content-groups) for your company and assign your company’s App Store content to different groups. Management of user group content is restricted to only the members of the group. You can also add [guest](/appstore/home-page/#guests) users to these groups and allow them to download selected private company content.

The former App Store **Content Managers** and **External Downloaders** groups have been removed. Members of these groups have been migrated to a new temporary user group called **Migrated Data**. Former “content managers” have been added as user group [members](/appstore/home-page/#members), and former “external downloaders” have been added as [guests](/appstore/home-page/#guests).

Content that was marked as **Protected** as well as content marked as **Shared with Others** has been migrated to the [Content](/appstore/home-page/#group-content) tab of the Migrated Data user group. This makes all “externally shared” content protected for that user group.

### October 1, 2019

#### Improvements

* We now display the UUID of an App Store component in the **Usage** section of its details page.

## September 2019

### September 11, 2019

#### Improvements

We added the flexibility to label your App Store content with a [custom version number](/appstore/submit-content/#updating).

{{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on an [upvoted idea from Andreas Blaesius](https://community.mendix.com/link/ideas/1324) submitted to the [Mendix Community](https://community.mendix.com/). Thanks, Andreas!{{% /alert %}}

## August 2019

### August 30, 2019

#### Improvements

We renamed all the SAP-related connectors and app templates in the App Store to be consistent. The changes are:

| Type | Old Name | New Name |
| ----- | ----- | -----|
| Connector | SAP Cloud Platform XSUAA Connector | XSUAA Connector for SAP Business Technology Platform |
| Connector | SAP Fiori UI Package | UI Package for SAP Fiori themed apps |
| Connector | SAP Leonardo Machine Learning Foundation Connector | Connector for SAP Leonardo Machine Learning Foundation |
| Connector | SAP OData Connector | OData Connector for SAP solutions |
| Connector | SAP OData Model Creator | OData Model Creator for SAP solutions |
| App Template | Fiori Blank | Blank App for SAP Fiori themed apps |
| App Template | SAP Northwind OData | Northwind OData Service Master-Detail App for SAP solutions |
| App Template | SAP Purchase Order Approval Tutorial | Purchase Order Approval Tutorial for SAP solutions |

### August 26, 2019

#### Improvements

* We updated the **SAP OData Connector** to support the **Edm.Int64** data type. (Ticket 87284)

#### Fixes

* We also fixed a *java.net.SocketException: Broken pipe (Write failed)* exception which occurred when sending a large request to the OData service endpoint. (Ticket 86680)

## July 2019

### July 31, 2019  

#### Improvements 

* We simplified the options available for formatting the Documentation section when creating new App Store content.
* We made it possible to upload images into the Documentation editor - you can drag an image from your file explorer into the editor, or link to images via URL (Copy + Paste does *not* work due to browser inconsistencies).
* We made some user changes and improvements when you create new content using GitHub as the source. For example, an easier-to-use selection screen when choosing your repository.  
* We also made some other minor bug fixes. 

### July 5, 2019

#### Improvements

* We updated the **SAP Logging Connector** to allow the log level to be set via a constant instead of an enumeration. This means that you can change the log level with a restart, without needing to fully redeploy your app.
* We solved an issue where the SAP Logging Connector had conflicts with the Community Commons module.

## June 2019

### June 28, 2019

#### Improvements

We added a component in the App Store which, when configured in your app, allows you to use the logging format supported by SAP Kibana. For more information, see [SAP Logging Connector](/appstore/modules/sap/sap-logger/).

### June 6, 2019

#### Improvements

* We fixed the issue with selecting specific app templates when creating a new app in Mendix Studio Pro (Desktop Modeler).
* We fixed the problems with deep links for private apps.

## April 2019

### April 29, 2019

#### Improvements

* We created a new App Store menu structure, so it is now easier to navigate through your created content. If you are a Mendix Admin with certain permissions, you will see additional menu items to help you manage private and public company content.
* For App Store administrators, you can now set content managers who are allowed to manage your company content by marking it as protected.
* You can now share private App Store content with external downloaders from other companies.

## February 2019

### February 15, 2019

#### Improvements 

* We now throw an error which you can catch in a microflow if the destination does not exist, or the app is running locally. Previously the error could not be caught.
* We now provide OData Connector support for Mendix apps which use Oracle DB as their database.
* We fixed some typos in the OData Connector actions.

## January 2019

### January 24, 2019

#### Improvements

* We released an upgraded version of the IBM Watson Connector Suite, which supports IBM Watson SDK version 6.11.0 and adds additional microflow actions.
* We released an upgraded version of the IBM Watson Connector Suite Example Project, which includes the new IBM Watson Connector Suite.
* We released an upgraded version of the IBM Watson Blank App app template, which includes the new IBM Watson Connector Suite.

### January 21, 2019

#### Fixes

The **Reviews** section at the bottom of the [App Store main page](https://marketplace.mendix.com/) presents the latest published user reviews. We fixed an issue where clicking on a user's name to view their profile caused an internal server error. You will now be redirected to the expected user.
