---
title: "2020 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2020"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2020/
description: "2020 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 6
numberless_headings: true
---

## December 2020

### December 15, 2020

#### Improvements

* The Mendix "App Store" has been renamed to the "Marketplace" as part of the continued investment in new capabilities that is underway. This rename (and URL change) is only for the pages rebuilt so far listed above. Further implementation of this renaming is to follow in future releases.
* We have implemented a UX Refresh to provide a fresh new look and feel for the [Marketplace home](/appstore/overview/), [catalog](/appstore/overview/), [component details](/appstore/component-details/), and Studio Pro download pages.
* We have enabled an enhanced navigation and undertaken some curation of published components to help you discover the components you require more easily.
* We have enabled a more structured wizard-based flow that makes it a lot easier for you to [share new content](/appstore/submit-content/) to the Marketplace.

## May 2020

### May 27, 2020

#### Fixes

* As of Studio Pro [8.10.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.10/#1400), you are able to download private content in the App Store again. This is not possible for Studio Pro 8.7 to 8.9.

### May 6, 2020

#### Improvements

* You can now download previous versions of App Store components from the [Mendix Marketplace](https://marketplace.mendix.com/). This can be done in the **All versions** tab on the component's [details page](/appstore/component-details/). This can be used as a workaround for not being able to download private content from the App Store available in older versions of Studio Pro/Desktop Modeler due to the [security issue](#private-fix) described below.

#### Fixes

* As of Studio Pro [8.6.4](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/#private-content), you are able to download private content in the App Store again. This is possible for Studio Pro 8.6.4 and all further 8.6.x versions. It is not possible for Studio Pro versions below 8.6.4.

### May 4, 2020

#### Fixes

* As of Desktop Modeler version 7.23.14, you are able to download private content in the App Store again. This is possible for Desktop Modeler version 7.23.14 and all further 7.23.x versions. It is not possible for Desktop Modeler versions below 7.23.14.

## April 2020

### April 7, 2020

#### Fixes {#private-fix}

* Downloading private content from the App Store available in Studio Pro/Desktop Modeler has been temporarily disabled due to a security vulnerability.
    * You will be able to download private content from the App Store available in Studio Pro/Desktop Modeler again once a fix is released in a future [8.x](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8/), [8.6.x](/releasenotes/studio-pro/8.6/), and 7.23.x release. This functionality will then only be available in those specific versions with the fix and subsequent versions. This functionality will not be available again for the App Store in Desktop Modeler version 6.
    * You can continue downloading the latest version of private App Store content from the [Company Content](/appstore/home-page/#company-content) page in the [Mendix Marketplace](https://marketplace.mendix.com/) and use it in the respective versions of Studio Pro/Desktop Modeler.

## February 2020

### February 26, 2020

#### Improvements

* We have updated the single sign-on functionality in the App Store to use the latest [Mendix SSO](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-sso/). Now, the first time you visit any App Store page requiring authentication, you will see a screen asking you to authorize access to your Mendix account. Click **Authorize** to continue.
