---
title: "2021 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2021"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2021/
description: "2021 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 6
numberless_headings: true
---

## December 2021

### December 16, 2021

#### Improvements

* We now support using rich text for your [component description](/appstore/submit-content/#general).

## November 2021

### November 18, 2021

#### New Features

* We released **Try for Free** for premium app services (like [Email Service](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/component/118393)).
* You can now provide key capabilities, a banner, external links, and industry cloud details when sharing new **Solution** and **Solution Template** [component types](/appstore/submit-content/#adding).

#### Improvements

* You can now add [release notes](/appstore/submit-content/#general) for your new component version without uploading a new source file.
* You can now skip uploading a source file on the [Upload Component](/appstore/submit-content/#general) tab for **App Service** and **Solution Template** component types if your component is not downloadable.

## September 2021

### September 7, 2021

#### New Features

* Marketplace filtering has been revamped. You can now find content faster by filtering by **Industry**, [Content Type](/appstore/#components-type), and Studio Pro **Compatibility**. 
* We have made 15+ fully developed solutions and 10+ solution templates available to help you realize value even more quickly.
* We have listed 10+ **Premium** app services, and we now support a self-service subscription experience using credit card for two app services in supported regions.

## August 2021

### August 12, 2021

#### Improvements

* We have replaced the **Download** button with the **Start with Template** button for the **Create New App** category.

## July 2021

### July 29, 2021

#### New Features

* We have implemented a UX refresh of **Marketplace Home Page** to be in line with other Marketplace pages.

## June 2021

### June 3, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug in Studio Pro where certain components did not load properly.

## May 2021

### May 31, 2021

#### Improvements

* When [adding new Marketplace content](/appstore/submit-content/#adding), you can now only set the **Category** in the initial version of your content. You cannot change this setting by updating the content later.
* When you create a new component in the **Solutions** category, you will not be able to upload a source file, as solutions will no longer have downloadable content.
* We have started supporting rich characters in the message describing what needs to be changed in your content for approval via the steps on the [Publish](/appstore/submit-content/#publish) page.

#### Fixes

* We fixed some bugs in the flow for adding new Marketplace content.

### May 28, 2021

#### New Features

* We released support for the subscription to an app service (like *MindSphere IIoT for Makers*):
    * Automatic provisioning of the app service on subscription.
    * The Service Management Dashboard, where you can view the service instance to which you have subscribed and generate binding keys for your service instance.

### May 4, 2021

#### Fixes

* <a id="windows-service"></a>We fixed the issue with downloading the Windows Service. 
* We fixed a minor bug for anonymous users.

## April 2021

### April 7, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added a section to **Get Studio Pro** for downloading versions that have [long-term support (LTS)](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#lts) and [medium-term support (MTS)](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/#mts).

    {{% alert color="info" %}}This is based on an [upvoted idea from Alexander Keßler](https://community.mendix.com/link/ideas/2212) submitted to the [Mendix Community](https://community.mendix.com/link/ideas). Thanks, Alexander!{{% /alert %}}

#### Fixes

* We fixed some performance issues where certain Marketplace sections were not loading properly. This also includes connection issues to the Marketplace within Studio Pro.

#### Known Issues

* There is an issue with users having trouble downloading Windows Service.
    * Fixed on [May 4th, 2021](#windows-service).

## March 2021

### March 23, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added email notifications for several actions in the Marketplace. You can now receive emails if one of your components has changed, when a published component has received a review, and when you receive a reply to one of your reviews. You can unsubscribe from any of the notifications in **Marketplace Home Page**.
* Developers can now reply to reviews of their components.

## February 2021

### February 9, 2021

#### Improvements

* You can now download [Windows Service](/releasenotes/studio-pro/windows-service/) and **Server Distribution** for the latest Studio Pro version using the **Related Downloads** button on the **Get Studio Pro** page.  
* Adding beta versions for components is no longer supported. Beta versions of published components and existing drafts have been automatically updated to remove the beta tag.

## January 2021

### January 26, 2021

#### Improvements

* You are now able to download Studio Pro versions marked as [beta](/releasenotes/release-status/) from a separate tab on the **Get Studio Pro** page named **Beta Releases**. The default download option (via the **Release Notes** tab) remains the latest stable release of Studio Pro.

#### Fixes

* We fixed some bugs in the [add new Marketplace content](/appstore/submit-content/#adding) flow and we made error messages more descriptive.
