---
title: "2022 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2022"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2022/
description: "2022 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 5
numberless_headings: true
---

## October 2022

### October 25, 2022

#### New Features

We are excited to bring new changes to the Mendix Marketplace and improve access to Marketplace content in Studio Pro for our community. The new revamp of the Marketplace in Studio Pro presents a better UI with easier navigation, better search functionality, a faster content-discovery experience, and more control over category and filters. We have also included new filter that helps you select **Platform-supported content**. 

The new view helps you to browse through Marketplace components and view component details more quickly, just as you can in the online Marketplace. 

Finally, we introduced UI changes for pagination and points of entry to the Marketplace for a better user experience.

For more information, see [How to Use Marketplace Content](/appstore/use-content/).

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
If you are using Studio Pro on a Mac with Parallels, see [this update](https://kb.parallels.com/112091#section7) for improving the loading time of Marketplace in Studio Pro.{{% /alert %}}

## August 2022

### August 27, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have added the **My Drafts** page, where you can access component drafts. We have also extended the actions you can perform on drafts. For more information, see the [My Drafts](/appstore/home-page/#my-drafts) section of *Marketplace Home Page*.

### August 11, 2022

#### New Features

* We have introduced a content curation feature, which allows Mendix Admins to curate Marketplace content for Studio. Mendix Admins can do the following from the **Marketplace Content** page in Control Center:
    * Limit available public Marketplace content in Studio
    * Approve and hide private Marketplace content in Studio

## March 2022

### March 24, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have made changes related to ad-hoc versioning and are now able to support more flexible version numbers as you create components. This means you can also publish components with version numbers that are backward-compatible.

## February 2022

### February 24, 2022

#### New Features

* There are now user trials available for **Premium** app services, such as Email Service and Speech to Text. This self-service experience helps you to evaluate the capabilities offered with these components and realize the value of premium content.
* User trial subscriptions are now listed under My Subscriptions, and company trial and paid subscriptions are now listed under Company Subscriptions.
* For new uploads of public components, you can now optionally share a virus scan report to speed up the governance process.
* For solutions and solution templates, you can now add a use case relevant to the component. The use case is displayed in the component listing and includes header text and an external link.

#### Improvements

* We made performance improvements for when a large source file is uploaded, specifically on the navigation steps.
* We improved the UI for self-service uploading your component to the Marketplace.

### February 10, 2022

#### Improvements

* When you onboard a component now, the maximum number of screenshots is restricted to ten.
* You can use form validations now when you navigate between steps during onboarding.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the logo cropper. Now the ratio of a cropped image is 600 x 420 pixels.
