---
title: "2023 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2023"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2023/
description: "2023 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 3
numberless_headings: true
---

## November 2023

### November 30, 2023

#### New Features

* We released the [Content API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/content-api/) for general use. This API allows you to retrieve information about both public and private company-specific Marketplace content.

## September 2023

### September 7, 2023

#### Improvements

In the past, downloading a component directly from the web Marketplace could lead to compatibility errors. Now, downloading a component can only happen directly from the Marketplace in Studio Pro. For that reason, we replaced the **Download** button on the [component details page](/appstore/component-details/) for widgets and modules with the **Use in Studio Pro** button. This new button allows you to copy the content ID so that you can [search for and use the component in Studio Pro](/appstore/use-content/#current-sp). This lowers the risk of introducing compatibility errors and improves the experience of installing the Marketplace content you need.

## August 2023

### August 5, 2023

#### Improvements

* Categories are now **Content Types**. We have reduced the number of content types and made them consistent across the platform. To learn more about the different content types available, visit the [Marketplace Guide](/appstore/overview/).
* Sub-categories have been replaced with **Categories**. When submitting a new component, you can apply between one and three categories. When searching in the Marketplace, you can use categories to filter the content and find the right component for your use case.

## June 2023

### June 29, 2023

#### New Features

* You can now configure your own [proprietary license](/appstore/submit-content/#proprietary-license) when creating a new public component. The license will be reviewed by Mendix alongside the review of the component. After the license has been approved, you and anyone within your organization can use the license for other components. 

## May 2023

### May 25, 2023

#### New Features

* You can now reassign a draft to yourself if you have edit rights for the Marketplace component. The draft will be unassigned from the previous owner. This allows you to continue working on a Marketplace listing, even when your colleague is out of office.

#### Improvements

* *.mpk* files are now uploaded asynchronously in the flow for adding Marketplace content, which means that you can continue to go through the onboarding wizard while the upload is in progress.
* We aligned the Marketplace UI with the rest of the Mendix Platform.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the notifications that are sent when a component update becomes available.
* If a user's email address contained an upper-case letter, they did not have access to private components in [content groups](/appstore/home-page/#content-groups). This issue has been fixed.

## April 2023

### April 20, 2023

#### New Features

* You can now filter Marketplace content for **Public** or **Private** components via the **Visibility** filter.

#### Improvements

* The **Compatibility** filter now only allows for major Mendix versions.
* The **Support** section of the [component details page](/appstore/component-details/) now includes a link to [Marketplace Content Support](/appstore/marketplace-content-support/).

## March 2023

### March 23, 2023

#### New Features

On top of open-source community-supported content, we are introducing an additional layer of support through our [Mendix Component Partner program](/appstore/partner-program/). Partner members can now bring their components to the Mendix Marketplace under terms that guarantee full support to customers:

* Partners are free to select an existing open-source license, or they can select a commercial option with the corresponding license and present that.
* Partners commit to providing support to customers under an SLA (meaning, under terms specified by the partner). Customers can rely on this SLA for support if something goes wrong. A partner-supported [component details page](/appstore/component-details/) contains a reference to the partner's support portal or the partner's support contact email.

You can find and use partner-supported components on the [Marketplace home page](https://marketplace.mendix.com/) under **From our partners** and by selecting the [Partner](/appstore/marketplace-content-support/#category) **Support** level in the search box. A partner-supported component details page has an explicit indicator (a crown), which makes it easy to distinguish from community-supported content.
