---
title: "2024 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2024"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2024/
description: "2024 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 3
numberless_headings: true
---

## December 2024

### December 12, 2024

#### Improvements

* Release notes are now editable for all versions of your Marketplace components. You no longer have to reach out to Mendix Support to change them.
* The Company Subscriptions page has been removed from the Marketplace.
* The Support Type labels 'Siemens' and 'Partner' have been added to the Marketplace in Studio Pro.

## October 2024

### October 31, 2024

#### New Features

* Components with the content type Solutions or Industry Templates now have a new component details page.
* On the component details page, you can now view information about the company that owns the component and the industry it belongs to.
* The **Releases** tab on the component details page now includes two search bars, enabling you to search by release notes and Mendix versions.

#### Improvements

* Videos previously located on the **Documentation** tab have been moved to the **Overview** tab on the component details page.
* If you click **Start with App** on a component details page of a starter app, you will start the Create App flow.

#### Deprecations

* The content types Banners and Solution Capabilities have been deprecated. You can no longer upload these two content types.

## September 2024

### September 26, 2024

#### New Features

* We added several new features to the Marketplace home page:
    * You can now search for marketplace content by component name or company name, and apply relevant filters.
    * Filters can now be easily cleared.
    * Pagination has been introduced for search results, making navigation more streamlined.

## June 2024

### June 27, 2024

#### New Features

* We released of a new label specifically for React Ready widgets in the Marketplace. This enhancement is designed to help developers and users easily identify and access a wide range of widgets that are optimized for React Client applications. You can find a **React-Client** label next to a version of the product when navigating to the **Release** tab of a product [details page](/appstore/component-details/).

#### Improvements

* We made significant improvements to the [Studio Pro download](https://marketplace.mendix.com/link/studiopro) page. The updated interface now provides a more intuitive and user-friendly experience, making it easier to find and download the latest or previous versions of Studio Pro. Each version of Studio Pro now has its own dedicated page, containing important links such as release notes, release blogs, and all relevant installers.
* We improved the navigation menus of the [Marketplace home page](/appstore/overview/) to enhance user experience.

## March 2024

### March 7, 2024

#### New Features

This release focuses on improving the Marketplace Reviews feature and making it even better for our users.

* We have improved the **Review** tab to give you tips when writing your review. This feature is available both on the Marketplace site and within Studio Pro.
* We have decoupled ratings and reviews. You can now rate a component 4 or 5 stars without leaving a review. For 3, 2, and 1 star ratings, a review is mandatory.
* You can now see additional information, such as reviews, on the Marketplace site without needing to sign in.
* We have removed the "Company Reviews" page from **Marketplace Home Page**.
* You can now to filter reviews based on specific criteria.
* We have improved the **Review** tab to give you tips when replying to a review of your Marketplace component.
