---
title: "2025 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2025"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2025/
description: "2025 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 1
numberless_headings: true
---

## December 2025

### December 11, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now deprecate Marketplace components that are no longer maintained. This helps keep a clean and reliable Marketplace ecosystem, with full visibility into the content that is no longer supported, as well as its recommended alternatives.    
  For details, refer to [Deprecating Marketplace Content](/appstore/deprecate-content/).


## October 2025

### October 9, 2025

#### Improvements

We have made several improvements aimed at streamlining the experience of uploading content to the Marketplace and improving quality control:

* The upload flow is now completely revamped, featuring a new interface and additional features, such as:

    * Adding multiple resource links, such as websites, to provide additional information.
    * Assigning multiple developers from your company as component owners.
    * Adding support information.
    * Control over the image size, allowing you to crop screenshots for a better visual experience.
    * Support for rich text in the release notes field.
    * A new **Component Tagline** field, allowing you to add a short description that will be displayed on your component's card in the Marketplace.
    * A new preview page, allowing you to see exactly what the component will look like once published.

* New component versions are now also scanned, and automatically uploaded if no vulnerabilities are found.
* The email announcing a new version of a component now also includes release notes.

## September 2025

### September 8, 2025

#### Improvements

In an effort to keep the Mendix Marketplace clean, trustworthy, and compliant with open-source standards, we have retired the following components:

* Antd Segmented
* App Guide  
* Attribute Helper  
* Azure Face API  
* Bootstrap Wysiwyg Editor  
* Collaboration Portal  
* Collapsible Header for Mendix Native  
* Confetti  
* D3 Matrix  
* D3 Network  
* Digital Investment Advice as a Service  
* Dropbox Connector  
* Element Animator  
* eTeller  
* Expand Text Native (Read More)  
* Focus Helper  
* Horizontal Native Chart  
* Imburse  
* Inclination Test Preparation  
* Institutional Onboarding  
* JavaScript Actions How-To Advanced  
* JSON To Tree  
* Konami Code Widget  
* Lottie Animations  
* Lottie Animations (Native)  
* Marine Issue Management  
* MFI Stencil Management  
* Multi tenant administration  
* MxHackathon  
* Native Calendar  
* Native Content Renderer  
* Native Segmented Progress Bar  
* OAuth  
* Parallax Header  
* Ping One Authentication  
* Planner Widget  
* PLM, ERP and LAB Connect  
* Portfolio Manager  
* Radio Button Native  
* Senseye Connector  
* Set Attribute  
* ShiftSwap  
* Shrinking header  
* Skip Link | Skip Navigation | A11Y Widget  
* Smart Warehousing  
* Smooth List  
* Sparklines  
* StyleSheetSwitcher  
* SVGRenderer  
* Tag Selector  
* Text Template  
* University - Event App  
* Vertical Timeline  
* Workforce Management  

## June 2025

### June 25, 2025

#### New Features

* We have released [Mendix Data Loader](/appstore/modules/snowflake/mendix-data-loader/) version 2.3.0. This version allows you to configure a specific warehouse for your task, which is used as a compute resource when the task triggers data ingestion. This is controlled through two new options: **Use Specific Warehouse** and **Warehouse**.

### June 19, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have redesigned the Studio Pro download page to make it easier for you to identify supported versions and make informed version management decisions at a glance.    
The new layout prominently displays the latest LTS and MTS releases, allowing you to choose the best version for your production apps. It also includes a definition of each release type to clarify the meaning of the labels in the version table. 

## May 2025

### May 22, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have replaced the [Marketplace Curation](/control-center/marketplace-curation/) <text class="badge badge-pill badge-recommended" style="margin-left:0px">RECOMMENDED</text> label with <text class="badge badge-pill badge-company-approved" style="margin-left:0px"> {{% icon name="checkmark-shield-filled" color="green" %}}COMPANY APPROVED</text>. The new label indicates Marketplace components that meet company policies and guidelines.

## January 2025

### January 16, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have removed outdated components from the Marketplace. These components were no longer supported, actively maintained, or guaranteed to work as intended. This step ensures a more reliable experience for all users.
