---
title: "2026 Marketplace Release Notes"
linktitle: "2026"
url: /releasenotes/marketplace/2026/
description: "2026 release notes for Marketplace"
weight: 1
numberless_headings: true
---

## June 2026

### June 18, 2026

#### New Features

* We have released a new API which allows you to upload new releases of existing components. In the future, this API will also enable you to upload completely new components.    
    For details, refer to [Publish API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/publish-api/).
* You can now create more than one draft for the same component.
* In an effort to streamline the Marketplace user interface, we have made the following updates and additions:

    * The **Personal** section has been renamed to **Manage Components**. It includes a new page, named **Published**, which contains all the components that you can manage. 
    * The **My Company Components** page no longer exists. Its content is now consolidated within the newly added **Published** page, under the **Personal** section.
    * The Marketplace homepage **Visibility** filter now includes the **From My Company** option, which allows you to choose whether you want to display components uploaded by your company.

## May 2026

### May 28, 2026

#### New Features

* You can now accomplish the following additional actions through the [Marketplace Content API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/content-api/#api-reference):

    * Retrieve company-approved status information. The `isCompanyApproved` attribute is included in content responses when the company-approved functionality is enabled.
    * Access detailed security vulnerability information for component versions. 
    
        * Vulnerable versions include a list of CVE or CWE identifiers and references to security fix versions that address these issues.
        * Security fix versions include information about which vulnerabilities they resolve and which versions are affected.
        * Version types clearly indicate whether a version is a regular release, contains known vulnerabilities, or provides security fixes.

    * Download specific versions of Marketplace components directly through the Content API. The `downloadURL` attribute provides the endpoint to retrieve component packages programmatically.

## April 2026

### April 18, 2026

#### New Features

* We have introduced an automatic cleanup action that removes drafts which have been inactive for more than 30 days.     
    This action is part of a larger infrastructure change, which resulted in the following:
    
    * All drafts that were inactive for more than 30 days were removed.
    * The last updated date of all your active drafts was changed to April 18, 2026.

## March 2026

### March 5, 2026

#### New Features

* You can now highlight component version releases that include security fixes. This helps users identify vulnerable older versions, as well as the necessary update to resolve security issues.     
    For details, refer to [Releasing Security Fixes](/appstore/submit-content/#security-fixes).

## January 2026

### January 22, 2026

#### New Features

* We have revamped the Marketplace section of Control Center, and have added a few new features and improvements meant to help you more efficiently manage and govern component approvals:

    * You can now add the company-approved (<text class="badge badge-pill badge-company-approved" style="margin-left:0px"> {{% icon name="checkmark-shield-filled" color="green" %}}COMPANY APPROVED</text>) badge to private Marketplace components as well.
    * We have updated page names in an effort to better convey their purpose: 
    
        * **Public Marketplace** is now **Company-Approved**. For details, refer to [Company-Approved](/control-center/company-approved/).
        * **Private Marketplace** is now **Submitted Requests**. For details, refer to [Submitted Requests](/control-center/submitted-requests/).

    * The **Submitted Requests** page is now split up into three tabs instead of two. The newly added tab is **Approval Settings**, and it includes the approval options that were previously displayed at the top of the **Pending Approvals** tab.
