---
title: "2017 Mendix Cloud Release Notes"
linktitle: "2017"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-cloud/2017/
description: "2017 Release notes for Mendix Cloud"
weight: 10
---

## December 2017

### December 29, 2017

#### Fixes

* In Mendix Cloud v4, the **archived log** function returned logs from a broader time range than what the user had selected (for example, the logs for one day returned log data from two days). This was fixed.

### December 22, 2017

#### Improvements

* We are introducing a **Restart** button for Mendix Cloud environments. This is useful for preparing configuration changes and activating them with only one click.

#### Fixes

* It's now possible to scale Mendix 6 applications on Cloud v4. Previously, this was only possible with environments that run Mendix 7 apps. With Mendix 6 apps, you can only scale the allocated memory, but not the amount of instances.
* Big backups are now welcomed on v4 environments, as we fixed an issue that prevented users from uploading backup packages larger than 5 GBs.
* We fixed an issue where some Mendix Cloud v3 users were not able to set a specified Java version for environments.
* Hovering over a Mendix Cloud environment status icon will now give more information about the environment's health.

### December 13, 2017

#### Fixes

* The JVM Process Memory graph in Cloud v4 now also show the native memory of the application.
* The Application Node Operating System Memory graph for Cloud v4 now shows as two lines: total and used. The previous version displayed the total added to the used in a stacked area graph, which was very confusing.

### December 6, 2017

#### Fixes

* We addressed an issue that prevents Free Apps from being embedded in an iframe.

## November 2017

### November 27, 2017

#### Improvements

* Free App users now have the option to select between Web Modeler and Desktop Modeler for editing their application models.

### November 15, 2017

#### Improvements

* Mendix Cloud v4 backups can now be restored to other environments in the same Mendix Cloud node. This is useful when preparing production migrations or for reproducing errors.
* When creating a deployment package from Team Server, the dialog box now shows branches in case-insensitive order, which makes more sense for users.
* Mendix Cloud v4 alert status showed `UNKNOWN` sometimes due to an error. This was fixed and the correct status is now shown.
* In the **Deploy**, **Operate**, and **Backups** pages, you can *finally* use the <kbd>Enter</kbd> key to submit your two-factor authentication code. Happy typing!

## October 2017

### October 20, 2017

#### Improvements

* Deploying a different version without stopping a running application is also now available on Mendix Cloud v3. Once the deployment is done, you can restart the application with a single click.
* The user experience of backup uploads has been improved for Mendix Cloud v4. It is also possible to manually delete the old backups on Mendix Cloud v4.
* We made a series of minor user experience improvements for metrics on Mendix Cloud v4.

#### Fixes

* When creating a deployment package from Team Server, users will now be able to see the revisions that were committed without the Mendix Modeler.

### October 10, 2017

#### Improvements

* We removed the backup expiry entries from the activity logs for all applications in the Mendix Cloud, as we found they cluttered the overview and did not provide any useful information to users.

## September 2017

### September 28, 2017

#### Improvements

* Deployments with almost no downtime: It is now possible to deploy a different version without stopping a running application. Once the deployment is done, you can restart the application with a single click. This is now available for Mendix Cloud v4. For Mendix Cloud v3, this will be available soon.
* Improved the robustness of the Deploy API: Occasional failures that occurred while starting/stopping an environment via the Deploy API no longer occur.
* Improved the stability for transporting deployment packages for Asia-Pacific users for Mendix Cloud v4.
* Environment health indicators for your environments are now much more accurate.

## August 2017

### August 30, 2017

#### Improvements

* The user interface of the instance/memory slider for Cloud v4 has been improved considerably. Scaling will also appear in the activity log of the application.
* For Mendix Cloud v4, we do no longer show the size of the archived log. The size we displayed previously was wrong.
* The expiry date for Mendix Cloud backups is now visible in the backup list.

### August 22, 2017

#### Improvements

* Due to various optimizations, the deployment speed for apps in Mendix Cloud v4 EU is now about twice as fast. The latency for FileDocument read/write actions has also improved for all Mendix Cloud v4 regions.

### August 15, 2017

#### Improvements

* We enabled path-based access restrictions for all Mendix Cloud v3 apps. This allows users to more easily configure access restrictions on their environments. For more information, see [Access Restrictions](/developerportal/deploy/access-restrictions/). Mendix Cloud v4 already has this functionality enabled.

### August 1, 2017

#### Improvements

* For Mendix Cloud v3, Java will be upgraded, including the most recent security updates. The Java KeyStore has also been updated. It contains trusted root certificates for secure outgoing connections from your Mendix app. For example, with the updated Java KeyStore, you are now able to connect to endpoints that use a certificate signed by [Let's Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/). Root certificates that are considered unsecure by Oracle and Mozilla have been removed. Your app will automatically start using a newer Java version and KeyStore when you restart the app. For Mendix Cloud v4, we are still planning the rollout of this fix.

## July 2017

### July 31, 2017

#### Fixes

* The [Deploy API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/deploy-api/) for apps in Mendix Cloud v4 contained multiple bugs in the start, stop and transport calls. These are now fixed.

### July 18, 2017

#### Improvements

* For all apps running on the Mendix Cloud, the following HTTP request headers are now available: `SSL-Protocol` (possible values: `TLSv1`, `TLSv1.1`, `TLSv1.2`) and `SSL-Cipher` (for example, `ECDHE-RSA-AES256-GCM-SHA384`). These can be used to block login attempts (for example, `TLSv1` connections). *(Please note that these release notes previously stated the header name was `SSL-Version`, but it should have been `SSL-Protocol`.)*
* Modern browsers are aggressively caching static HTML resources, which can lead to user problems after deploying new versions of applications. Clearing the cache can solve this, but that is a bad user experience. So, for all apps running on Mendix Cloud v3, we have added an explicit `no-cache` header to the resources `/` and `/index.html`, `/login.html`, and `/index[0-9].html`. For Mendix Cloud v4, an `expires` with a negative value was already used, so no changes are required there. We believe this change eliminates most of the browser caching issues we have seen so far.
* You can now restrict access to your Mendix Cloud v4 applications based on IP ranges. This is available for all Mendix Cloud v4 regions and can be configured from the **Network** tab of your cloud environment.

#### Fixes

* When updating the admin user password in the Mendix Cloud, the password policy description was wrong, which led to confusing situations. We updated the text.
* When navigating to **Node Security**, the **App Team** tab no longer disappears.
* Due to a ZIP file encoding change in Mendix 7.5.0, AppServices could not be parsed when deploying to the Mendix Cloud. We fixed this.
* The **View Current Log** button is no longer hidden for Free Apps.

## May 2017

### May 19, 2017

#### Fixes

* We corrected the backup retention scheme for paid applications on Mendix Cloud v4, and it is now the same as on Mendix Cloud v3.
* The "view current log" functionality for Mendix Cloud v4 applications was empty by default and the **Show all** button needed to be used. It now shows the content right away.

### May 17, 2017

#### Improvements

* We upgraded the SSL/TLS ciphers for connections to apps in Mendix Cloud v4. These included dropping block-based ciphers (3DES), moving to 2048 bit DH params. Mendix Cloud v4 now has an [A+ rating at SSL Labs](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html).
* We added HTTP/2 support for connections to all apps in Mendix Cloud v3 and Mendix Cloud v4. HTTP/2 is supported by all major browsers and results in more efficient network connections. [Read more about HTTP/2 here](https://http2.github.io/faq/).

### May 4, 2017

#### Improvements

* Transporting a new deployment package dead-ended in a "Deploy successful" screen. Users are redirected to the environment details screen, which is much more useful.

#### Fixes

* We fixed the failing of large backups in Mendix Cloud v4. Backups will now only fail when the disk of the database is filled up.
* Alert Details now highlights the right menu item.
* Fixed a race condition where two apps created at the same time could get the same domain name.
* Added a warning message before restore backup, to prevent users clearing their environment. Clearing the environment before restoring resulted in a much slower non-incremental restore operation.
* Disabled automatic copying of "Data Snapshots" to empty environments in Mendix Cloud v4 Pro/Enterprise environments. This features is only used in Free Apps. Weak admin passwords in the database snapshot would prevent the app from starting.

## April 2017

### April 1, 2017

#### Improvements

* We added list backups/download backup operations to the [Deploy API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/deploy-api/).
* We updated the **Security** link from the Deploy/Operate tabs. It now goes to the same page on all pages in the platform.

#### Fixes

* We fixed the status page link in alert emails.
* We fixed an issue where the Free Apps backups page was very slow or resulted in an error in some cases.
* We fixed an issue where the log viewer for Free Apps did not escape HTML, so if the application logged plain HTML, it was interpreted in the browser.
* We fixed an issue where simultaneous snapshot restore jobs from the same environment to two others could lock one of the environments.

## March 2017

### March 20, 2017

#### Fixes

* The Deploy / Operate sections in the Platform Portal were broken on Internet Explorer 11 due to widget incompatibility, introduced in the previous release. This was already hot-patched in production on March 16.

### March 13, 2017

#### Fixes

* Clicking **Operate -> Backups** resulted in errors for a Free App. This has been fixed.

### March 10, 2017

#### Improvements

* We introduced a new setting in **Node Security**, you can now configure **Monitoring Permissions** separately from **Transport Permissions**. Immediately after this change, we granted all users that had **Transport Permissions** on an environment the **Monitoring Permissions** there as well. From now on, a **Technical Contact** can configure these settings for everyone in the team separately. While we introduced this setting, we revisited the layout of the **Node Security** screen, you now have a simpler interface to change the permissions for each environment.

## February 2017

### February 20, 2017

#### Improvements

* We removed static information from the log lines in Mendix Cloud v3. Every line before contained `tr10000` and `127.0.0.1`. We removed these fields as they were useless.
