---
title: "2019 Mendix Cloud Release Notes"
linktitle: "2019"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-cloud/2019/
description: "2019 Release notes for Mendix Cloud"
weight: 8
---

## December 2019

### December 23, 2019

#### Improvements

* We improved the stability and performance of Mendix Cloud deployment. (Tickets 86800, 92241, 92426)

## November 2019

### November 21, 2019

#### Improvements

* We implemented a number of improvements to enable Mendix Support to provide better support if there are deployment issues

### November 7, 2019{#20201107}

#### Improvements and Fixes

* We have improved the stability and performance of Mendix Cloud Deployment and Operations.

    * This also resolved the [known issues noted on October 30](#ki20201030)

## October 2019

### October 30, 2019

#### Improvements

* We have upgraded Mendix Cloud Deployment and Operation. It is now a Mendix 7 app.
* You can now mask app constant values so that they cannot be seen in the **Model Options** tab of the **Environment Details**.
* We now warn you on all **OPERATE** and **DEPLOY** pages if a maintenance window has been created to allow updating of the Mendix Developer Portal.

<a id="ki20201030"></a>**Known Issue**

* In the **Environments** page, when you click the **Details** button for a **Production** environment and successfully complete two-factor authentication, you are redirected to the **first** environment listed for your app, *not the Production environment*. (Ticket 90999)

    * Workaround – Choose the **Details** for the **Production** environment again and you will be taken to the correct environment.
    * Resolved by release on [November 7](#20201107).

* When you attempt to open an **OPERATE** or **DEPLOY** page in the Developer Portal, you may see a login page. You will need to force a refresh of your page, or clear your browser cache, in order to access the page.

    * Resolved by release on [November 7](#20201107).

### October 1, 2019

#### Improvements

* The `X-Client-Certificate` request header has been removed. You can use the `SSL-Client-S-DN` header instead. See [Mendix Cloud HTTP Request Headers](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-request-headers/) for more information.

## September 2019

### September 27, 2019

#### Improvements

**Update of `*.mendixcloud.com` SSL/TLS certificate**

We have renewed the SSL/TLS certificate for `*.mendixcloud.com`. Browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, and Internet Explorer automatically trust the new certificate. In those cases, there is nothing you have to do.

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
If you run services that connect to a `*.mendixcloud.com` endpoint AND use a static or outdated trust store, we advise you to update them. The new SSL/TLS certificate can be downloaded [here](/attachments/releasenotes/deployment/mendix-cloud/mendixcloud.com-2019-09-12.crt.txt).
{{% /alert %}}

**Current Certificate Details**

* Subject: `*.mendixcloud.com`
* Issuer: C = US, O = DigiCert Inc, OU = www.digicert.com, CN = RapidSSL RSA CA 2018
* Validity: Jan 3 00:00:00 2018 GMT - Oct 2 12:00:00 2019 GMT
* SHA-256 Fingerprint: F8:FD:79:7A:73:48:E5:B0:9E:70:42:2B:15:D0:8C:D4:5E:F3:66:74:F8:B7:CF:5A:36:16:07:0D:E8:73:BE:8A
* SHA-1 Fingerprint: 78:0D:25:B2:86:12:64:BA:A0:F0:0C:C3:DD:88:C8:32:55:BD:C0:F8

**New Certificate Details**

* Subject: `*.mendixcloud.com`
* Issuer: C = US, O = DigiCert Inc, OU = www.digicert.com, CN = RapidSSL TLS RSA CA G1
* Validity: Sep 12 00:00:00 2019 GMT - Nov 10 12:00:00 2021 GMT
* SHA-256 Fingerprint: AE:55:1D:88:32:E1:7E:BF:AB:0D:F3:2F:57:57:C8:98:8D:87:3F:E8:F6:5F:A6:09:82:EA:37:F7:12:25:A5:D3
* SHA-1 Fingerprint: 5E:4D:05:9B:FE:54:3F:B6:D8:A4:D7:86:7F:3B:50:9A:EE:09:35:8F

### September 5, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that caused the wrong Technical Contact information to be shown on the app's *General* page in the Developer Portal. (Ticket 84852)
* We added a feedback message when you try to restore a backup while the backup is still being created. (Ticket 85786)

## August 2019

### August 23, 2019

#### Improvements

* We improved the performance of the Environments page by reducing the number of remote requests needed.

## July 2019

### July 25, 2019

#### Improvements

* We reordered and improved the Trends pages of operating metrics to improve the user experience.
* We improved the performance of calculating the environment health status.
* We improved the ability to recover from a failed deployment in the Free App cluster.

## June 2019

### June 27, 2019

#### Improvements

* We added a confirmation dialog when you delete Custom Headers.
* We made general performance improvements.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that prevented the adding of comments to a backup. (Ticket 81993)
* We updated the **Read documentation** link in the Mendix Cloud v4 metrics page to point to the right document. (Ticket 82130)
* We added appropriate feedback if you try to upload a client certificate which is unsupported because it is not encoded in PEM. (Ticket 82299)
* We fixed an issue which prevented the offboarding of a single environment if you wanted to retain other environments in the Mendix Cloud node. (Ticket 83189)

### June 15, 2019

#### Improvements

* All **HTTP Request Headers** set by Mendix Cloud that are available to app developers are documented in [Mendix Cloud HTTP Request Headers](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-request-headers/).
* The `X-Client-Certificate` request header that is currently present is deprecated and will be removed in a later stage. Any application relying on this header must switch to the new `SSL-Client-S-DN` header. See the previously mentioned documentation for more information.

## May 2019

### May 17, 2019

#### Fixes

* We made several changes to our maintenance window management to ensure that environments are completely locked during maintenance.

### May 16, 2019

#### Improvements

* We redesigned the App User management page of the Developer Portal for Mendix Cloud environments that are enabled for single sign-on (SSO).

### May 9, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the Mendix feedback widget stopped working for apps deployed to Mendix Cloud because of a change to HTTP Headers. (Ticket 83001)

### May 7, 2019

#### Improvements

* For Mendix Cloud v4, we have extended the range of HTTP Headers that are supported in the Developer Portal. Previously, only *X-Frame-Options* was supported. For more information, see [Environment Details](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/#http-headers).
    * If you add or change these settings, you will need to redeploy your app before the changes take effect.
* For Mendix Cloud v4 deployments of Mendix apps version 7.23.1 and above, we now support AdoptOpenJDK, and the relevant Java version is displayed on the Environment Details page.
* We clarified which logs can be downloaded from the Developer Portal by changing the button text from *Download Today's Log* to *Download Current Log*

#### Fixes

* We resolved an issue where some team members were not visible in Node Permissions after an app was relinked (Tickets 70285, 79708, 79824, 80557, 81713, 82591).

### May 3, 2019

#### Improvements

* We released **Free Edition** of Mendix. This removes the limit of 10 named users on Free Apps that are deployed to Mendix Cloud. To take advantage of the *Free Edition* for an existing app, you need to redeploy your app.

## April 2019

### April 4, 2019

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue with changing [Node Permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/).

## March 2019

### March 29, 2019

#### Improvements

* We have introduced *Flexible Environments* for Mendix Cloud v4. This means that you can have more than three environments for your licensed node. More information is available [here](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/#flexible-environments). If you need more than three environments, contact [Mendix Support](/support/). Features of Flexible Environments include the following:
    * You can search for the environment for which you want to see details
    * The Technical Contact can rename the environments
    * The Technical Contact can re-order the environments
* As part of support for Flexible Environments, we have made the following changes:
    * When deploying your application via the Developer Portal, you can choose the destination environment
    * When viewing metrics, logs, backups, etc., you will have to choose the environment using a drop-down rather than clicking directly on the environment you want

#### Other Improvements

* We have added the ability to manage tags through the Developer Portal, in addition to the current method, which involved using the API.

### March 7, 2019

#### Fixes

* We have fixed the issue where custom domains were not getting bound to environments if they were added before the environment was initialized. (Tickets 78324, 76159, 76439, 77366, 77504, 78324, 78484)
* We have fixed the issue which caused the "Running Since" value in the Environment Details to be updated after transporting an MDA to an environment but where the process was canceled without restarting the environment. (Ticket 76893)
* We have fixed the issue regarding unclear application version numbering when building an MDA package. The "App latest tag" and "Branch latest tag" have been replaced with "App highest tag" and "Branch highest tag", respectively, to represent the values more precisely. (Ticket 78699)
* We have fixed the issue causing license information to be displayed incorrectly in the Developer Portal for some Mendix Cloud v3 production environments. (Ticket 78229, 80336)

## February 2019

### February 6, 2019

#### Fixes

* We addressed and fixed an issue that caused some Mendix Cloud v4 backups to be duplicated.
* We fixed a problem on Mendix Cloud v3 that prevented Path-based Access Restrictions from working with multiple TLS certificate authorities. (Ticket 77282)
* We fixed the problem which prevented users in the Pacific Time Zone from being able to download the current day's logs. (Tickets 78325, 78586, 79119, 79162, 79427)
* We addressed and solved a problem that meant that some sandboxes could not be resumed after getting stopped.
* We have fixed the issue that prevented apps with ACS (AppCloudServices) from being deployed using the Web Modeler. (Ticket 76888)

## January 2019

### January 28, 2019

#### Improvements{#tls}

**TLS v1.0 and v1.1 Disabled for Mendix Cloud v4**

* We have implemented a change on our Mendix Cloud v4 infrastructure so that incoming connections that do not support TLS v1.2 or higher will stop working. This effectively means that TLS v1.0 and v1.1 are disabled, and Mendix Cloud v4 now has an [A+ rating at SSL Labs](https://www.ssllabs.com/ssltest/index.html) again.

### January 3, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed issues regarding incorrect values for some application constants for some Mendix Cloud v4 and v3 applications. (Tickets 77302, 77390, 77505, 77797)
* We addressed and fixed an issue that prevented some Mendix Cloud v3 users from being able to change the Java version of their applications. (Tickets 77251, 77652)