---
title: "2021 Mendix Cloud Release Notes"
linktitle: "2021"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-cloud/2021/
description: "2021 Release notes for Mendix Cloud"
weight: 6
---

## December 2021

### December 23, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added log entries to the activity log to record changes to members of the app team and any changes to the [permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/) that team members have.
* We now display any documentation associated with [scheduled events](/refguide9/scheduled-events-legacy/#common-properties) in the [Model Options tab](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/#model-options) of the environment details.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where uploading a backup file got stuck and could not be completed. (Tickets 134454, 134887, 134898, 135007, 135325, 135359, 135692, 135894, and 137806)

### December 22, 2021

#### Improvements

**Update of `*.mendix.com` TLS certificate**

We will gradually replace the TLS certificate for `*.mendix.com` in January 2022. Browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, and Internet Explorer automatically trust the new certificate. In those cases, there is nothing you have to do.

Current Certificate Details: [https://crt.sh/?id=2349479044](https://crt.sh/?id=2349479044)

New Certificate Details: [https://crt.sh/?id=5832398831](https://crt.sh/?id=5832398831)

## November 2021

### November 18, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the custom HTTP header Content-Security-Policy to follow RFC and W3C specs during validation. (Tickets 133172)
* We fixed an issue where a request handler path with '.' would break transport. (Tickets 132865, 133292)

## October 2021

### October 26, 2021

#### Improvements

Mendix Cloud v4 now supports PostgreSQL 13. This adds significant performance improvements for some workloads.

All newly-created applications will have a database running PostgreSQL 13.

Existing applications will be updated in the next few weeks. Technical contacts of these applications will receive timely notifications and, additionally, maintenance information will be visible in the Developer Portal.

### October 7, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where users could not see all their backups, and some backups were shown more than once. (Tickets 127908, 128966, 130090, and 130313)

## September 2021

### September 10, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added a new [custom environment variable](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/#custom-environment-variables) `USAGE_METRICS_EMAIL_FIELDS` which allows you to identify which entities are used to hold your end user details.

#### Fixes

* In **Mendix Cloud v3** we fixed a problem with viewing the current log in a pop-up. We now display the current log in a new browser tab. 

## August 2021

### August 26, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added the ability to restore only a database, without restoring the other files in a backup.
    You can do this in one of two ways:
    * Through the [Developer Portal](/developerportal/operate/restore-backup/#restore-cloud-backup)
    * Using the [Backups API v2](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/backups-api/)

### August 6, 2021

#### Improvements

* We moved the [Node Permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/) from the Security page to the [Environments](/developerportal/deploy/environments/) page.
* We added the ability to delegate node permission management to team members who are not the Technical Contact.

#### Fixes

* We now prevent you from allocating more memory than is available when [scaling your environment](/developerportal/deploy/scale-environment/) when you have multiple instances, ensuring that deployments do not fail because of a lack of memory. 

## July 2021

### July 23, 2021

#### Improvements

* We improved the environment details by making the PostgreSQL version dynamic using the information available from the service broker. The version will be updated after a restart of the environment.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where custom JSON error descriptions were not returned for REST endpoints. If you have defined custom HTML error pages for your app, they will be disabled for request handlers that typically do not serve HTML content. These include SOAP, OData, and REST endpoints defined in your app.
* We fixed an issue where the free application environment page showed an app as deployed in Mendix Cloud when it was not.

### July 15, 2021

#### Improvements

* Mendix Cloud v4 now supports incoming connections over Internet Protocol version 6 (IPv6).

### July 5, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where long-running restore jobs appear to fail when using [Backups API v1](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/backups-api-v1/).  (Tickets 122197 and 125707)

#### Announcement

* We are deprecating [Version 1 of the Backups API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/backups-api-v1/). Mendix recommends using the [Backups API v2](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/backups-api/), which handles long-running backup and restore jobs more robustly.

## June 2021

### June 14, 2021

#### Improvements

* We have improved our logging to provide more stability and robustness. This addresses issues faced by customers, such as failing log downloads and incomplete log files.

### June 11, 2021

#### Mendix Cloud v3 Archived Logs

* We have deleted archived logs older than six months for all Mendix Cloud **v3** apps. This is in line with the warning given in the Developer Portal and the current commitment to keep logs for six months.

### June 8, 2021

#### Improvements

* The [Mendix buildpack](https://github.com/mendix/cf-mendix-buildpack) that is used to run your Mendix application will be automatically updated to the latest version every time your app resumes in Mendix Cloud v4 Free Tier EU.

## May 2021

### May 27, 2021

#### Improvements

* We now retain daily backups on Mendix Cloud v4 for 30 days. Previously, it was two weeks.

### May 18, 2021

#### Improvements

* Mendix Cloud domains `mendixcloud.com` and `mxapps.io` now use DNSSEC to authenticate DNS lookups. There is nothing that you need to do for this change to take effect. Going forward, all DNS requests to these domains will automatically use DNSSEC.

### May 12, 2021

#### Improvements

* Mendix Cloud database backups are now created with `pg_dump` version 1.14. This version is shipped with PostgreSQL since October 2019 (PostgreSQL 12, 13). The side-effect is that it is not possible to restore these PostgreSQL backups using a `pg_restore` version below 1.14 (PostgreSQL <= 11). The error that you will receive is `pg_restore: [archiver] unsupported version (1.14) in file header`. To resolve this issue, upgrade your software to a version that includes newer versions of `pg_dump` and `pg_restore`. Examples are PostgreSQL client version 12 or 13, or [PGAdmin version 4.12 or above](https://www.pgadmin.org/download/).

## April 2021

### April 29, 2021

#### Improvements

* We increased the maximum number of instances you can set when [scaling](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/#scaling) your app to 32. If you need more than 32 instances, contact Mendix Support.

#### Announcement - Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) will be supported for applications in Mendix Cloud v4 from **July 1, 2021**

To improve security and scalability of the connections made to applications in Mendix Cloud v4, **on July 1, 2021** we will enable support for **Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)** in **Mendix Cloud v4**. This will happen automatically, there is no need to redeploy your app.

Enabling support for IPv6 means that clients who access your Mendix applications which have configured Access Restriction Profiles may not be able to connect to them when using IPv6.

**What does this mean for you?**

We are informing you about this date so that you can plan to update your Access Restriction Profiles and inform users about this change. Technical Contacts of affected apps will also be contacted directly.

You can configure IPv6 ranges before July 1, but the change will only come into effect on that date. Instructions for setting IP ranges can be found in the [Access Restriction Profiles](/developerportal/deploy/access-restrictions/#ip-ranges) documentation.

**Test your clients**

You can test whether your client (browser or integrating client) is using IPv6, by using [https://ipv6-test.com](https://ipv6-test.com/).

**Impact**

Any clients that use IPv6 to connect to applications which have configured Access Restriction Profiles may experience connectivity issues from **July 1, 2021** onwards.

### April 15, 2021

#### Fix/Improvement

* We implemented a new `upload` API which allows you to upload large (>300 MB) app packages (.mda files) and still retrieve the package ID. More information is in [Deploy API – Version 2](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/deploy-api-2/). (Tickets 117609 and 117622)

## March 2021

### March 30, 2021

* We have implemented various visual changes to the user interface of the Developer Portal.

### March 18, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added the ability to completely clear all the data from your database running in a licensed environment.
* We removed the ability to publish **App Services**. These have been deprecated for some time. You should use a [Published Web Service](/refguide9/published-web-services/) or a [Published REST Service](/refguide9/published-rest-service/) instead.

#### Fix

* We fixed an issue where deployments failed if there were too many log nodes. (Ticket 115140)

    As a consequence of this, you will no longer be able to see the log levels of all your [log nodes](/developerportal/deploy/environments-details/#log-levels) if your app is not running. Only log nodes which are not set to `Info` will be visible until you restart your app.

### March 16, 2021

* We updated the Mendix runtime to send back usage information to Mendix for your apps deployed to the Mendix Cloud. See below for more information about this change.

    This will be enabled the next time you redeploy your app. 

**What happens to this information?**

The sole purpose of retrieving this information is to check compliance against your license subscription. The information sent to Mendix allows us to provide you with clear insights into the exact usage of your apps and the number of active users in a given time-period. This can also help you in determining an optimum user plan in the long run.

This information is eventually stored within Mendix and gives us an aggregated view of usage of your apps. 

**What is the information sent back?**

Usage information in this context is the username, project id, app environment name, and date and time of logon. 
Note that **the username is scrambled using a hashing algorithm**, ensuring that the actual username cannot be discovered. 

**Who is a user?**

Everyone who logs onto the app with a username and password is considered an app user. All anonymous users are treated as a single user for this purpose.

**When and how does this happen?**

In connected environments, this usage information will be sent back to Mendix automatically, at regular intervals — by default this is set to once every day. This transmission will take place at around(randomized) midnight. Data will also be sent when the app is restarted. 

### March 3, 2021

* We updated the [deploy API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/deploy-api/), [Build API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/build-api/), Team Server API, [Backups API v2](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/backups-api/), and [Backups API v1](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/backups-api-v1/) to:
    * add json validation
    * add stricter API path validation (for example, a trailing `/` on the API path will result in `API not found`)
    * return differently formatted error messages for unhandled or unexpected errors
    * the package name in the [Upload Package](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/deploy-api/#upload-package) call of the deploy API must be part of the query — it can no longer be passed in the body of the request

If you encounter errors using APIs, please ensure that the format matches the documentation exactly before contacting Mendix Support. Additional or amended headers or request bodies may cause the API to fail.

## February 2021

### February 22, 2021

* We have released a major improvement to the technology underpinning our integration with Datadog. This adds the following features:
    * tracing program flow (see https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/setup_overview/setup/java for information on how Datadog does this)
    * redacting email addresses in Datadog logs

    You need to redeploy of your app to implement these changes. All your existing metrics will continue to be sent to Datadog. There will be some minor changes around how database rate and counter metrics, but this does not affect gauges. See [Datadog for v4 Mendix Cloud](/developerportal/operate/datadog-metrics/) for more information.
    