---
title: "2022 Mendix Cloud Release Notes"
linktitle: "2022"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-cloud/2022/
description: "2022 Release notes for Mendix Cloud"
weight: 5
---

## November 2022

### November 14, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have configured reverse DNS for the outgoing IP addresses of Mendix Cloud v4. A reverse DNS lookup is commonly used by email services to filter out spam.

### November 10, 2022

#### Improvements

* We updated the **Virtual Machine Out of Memory** and **Virtual Machine Error** alerts to offer more clarity and visibility into the application behavior. These changes are available after you redeploy your app.
* We now warn you if you try to set unsupported custom runtime settings. These are settings, mainly related to storage options, which are controlled by the Mendix Cloud deployment and cannot be customized for apps which are deployed to Mendix Cloud.

### November 1, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have enabled DNSSEC for all `*.mendixcloud.com` domains.

## October 2022

### October 20, 2022

#### Fix

* We fixed an issue with validation of white spaces in intermediate certificate chains for custom domains. (Tickets 15376, 163961, 165121, 165756, 167669, and 168416)

### October 17, 2022

#### Improvements

* We updated our alert template to remove the **Application Server Memory** alert.
* We added the **Database Freeable Memory** alert with the critical threshold set to 10%.

## September 2022

### September 15, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have improved the maintenance banner message at the application and environment level to show more information about the maintenance.

#### Fix

* We improved the performance of the Developer Portal when selecting which revision to use to build a deployment package from an MDA. (Ticket 163959)

### September 13, 2022

#### Improvements

* We updated our alert template to make the alert names more descriptive and transparent. For more information, see [Alerts](/developerportal/operate/monitoring-application-health/).

## August 2022

### August 8, 2022

#### Improvements

* We added the AWS Mumbai region as a new deployment target in Mendix Cloud Asia Pacific.

## July 2022

### July 21, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have introduced support for runtime application logs to be sent from Mendix Cloud v4 to [Splunk Cloud Platform](/developerportal/operate/splunk-metrics/).

### July 8, 2022

#### Improvements

We added the ability to enable and disable additional services at an app and environment level.

## June 2022

### June 29, 2022

#### Improvements

**Update of `*.apps.ca-1a.mendixcloud.com` TLS certificate**

We replaced the TLS certificate for `*.apps.ca-1a.mendixcloud.com` on June 29, 2022. Browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Google Chrome automatically trust the new certificate. In those cases, there is nothing you have to do.

Current Certificate Details: [https://crt.sh/?id=4793020705](https://crt.sh/?id=4793020705)

New Certificate Details: [https://crt.sh/?id=6940447552](https://crt.sh/?id=6940447552)

**Update of `*.apps.au-1a.mendixcloud.com` TLS certificate**

We replaced the TLS certificate for `*.apps.au-1a.mendixcloud.com` on June 29, 2022. Browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Google Chrome automatically trust the new certificate. In those cases, there is nothing you have to do.

Current Certificate Details: [https://crt.sh/?id=4793020687](https://crt.sh/?id=4793020687)

New Certificate Details: [https://crt.sh/?id=6940402070](https://crt.sh/?id=6940402070)

### June 15, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have enabled a Web Application Firewall (WAF) service for the licensed regions of the Mendix Cloud. For more information about WAF, see the [release note for March 30](#waf).

    | Region | Date Enabled |
    | --- | --- |
    | Asia Pacific | June 13 |
    | US and Canada | June 14 |
    | EU and UK | June 15 |

### June 2, 2022

#### Fix

* We fixed an issue where some customers were seeing an error message when leaving the permissions tab of the environments page when there were no actual errors. (Ticket 146866)

#### Improvements

* We improved the UX for setting up two-factor authentication.

## May 2022

### May 31, 2022

#### Fix – AppDynamics

* We changed the naming format for nodes when using AppDynamics metrics. When the instance is added to the node name, we now use a hyphen instead of an underscore. So `node_1` becomes `node-1`. This is in line with AppDynamics naming conventions.

### May 6, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have updated AppDynamics monitoring to provide default values where possible.

## April 2022

### April 22, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have added two new graphs on the [Metrics page for Cloud v4](/developerportal/operate/metrics/):
    * Number of files in storage
    * Size of files in storage (in bytes)
* We have updated the alert order on the [Alerts page](/developerportal/operate/monitoring-application-health/) for better visibility
* We have made improvements to the email alert subscription service to make it more reliable

### April 21, 2022

* We have introduced support for [AppDynamics](/developerportal/operate/appdynamics-metrics/) monitoring in Mendix Cloud v4.

## March 2022

### March 31, 2022

#### Improvements

* We now show deactivated users on the [Node Permissions](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/) page for consistency with the [Team](/developerportal/general/team/) page.

### March 30, 2022{#waf}

#### Improvements

* We have implemented a Web Application Firewall (WAF) service for Free Apps deployed to the Mendix Cloud.

    The Web Application Firewall (WAF) is a security service that protects applications from malicious and unwanted internet traffic without modifying your application code. WAF for Free Apps addresses various attack categories including many high risk and commonly occurring vulnerabilities described in OWASP publications such as [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/). These include the following:

    * Cross-site scripting
    * HTTP protocol violations
    * Bots, crawlers, and scanners
    * HTTP Denial of Service
    * Server-side request forgery
    * Local File Inclusion
    * Log4j remote code execution

### March 3, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the `start environment` Deploy API error response had an incorrect JSON format. (Ticket 135323)

### March 2, 2022

#### Improvements

* We have adjusted the thresholds for the Application Container Memory Percentage alert. It will now send a warning alert when the memory utilization is above 90% and a critical alert when it is above 95%.

## February 2022

### February 17, 2022

#### Fixes

* We removed a misleading message which was displayed when a Free App was unlinked from its environment. (Ticket 140897)

## January 2022

### January 13, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the start environment call to the deploy API failed to start the environment. (Ticket 132011)
