---
title: "2024 Mendix Cloud Release Notes"
linktitle: "2024"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/mendix-cloud/2024/
description: "2024 Release notes for Mendix Cloud"
weight: 3
---

## December 2024

### December 12, 2024

#### Improvements

* We improved the layout and display of the Alerts page. The new layout allows sorting and filtering of alerts based on the severity and date together with a free text search. 
* You can now subscribe to alerts emails in the settings tab. For more information, see [Alerts](/developerportal/operate/monitoring-application-health/).

### December 5, 2024

#### Improvements

* We introduced cloud tokens for your cloud resource pack purchases! Starting now, you will use [cloud tokens](/control-center/cloud-tokens/#cloud-tokens) instead of cloud credits to complete your cloud resource purchases. With the transitioning from cloud credits to cloud tokens, Mendix is paving the way for a more streamlined and flexible approach to purchasing and switching between Mendix Cloud products.

### December 1, 2024

#### API Retirement

* We retired the Team Server API. You will now have to use the [App Repository API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/app-repository-api/) instead.

## November 2024

### November 29, 2024

#### New Features

* We enhanced Software Composition to include marketplace-related metadata. You can now view this additional information on both the [All Components](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/#all-components) tab and the [Deployed Package Details](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/#deployed-package-details) page for a more comprehensive overview of your components.

### November 17, 2024

#### Deployment Portal Fixes

* We fixed a bug in the [Permissions tab of the legacy UI](/developerportal/deploy/environments/#permissions-tab), where changing an application's technical contact resulted in a blank page.
* We fixed a bug in the [new UI](/developerportal/deploy/environments/), where the **scalable** tag was displayed for environments that were not scalable.
* We fixed a number of other bugs related to dark mode.

### November 6, 2024

#### New Features

* Cloud permissions are now included in project roles.
* You can now manage all project roles centrally, on a company level, if you have switched to using company-level roles.

#### Improvements

* We have made improvements to the [permissions tab](/developerportal/deploy/node-permissions/#permissions-tab). The **Receive alerts** permission has also been removed from the permissions tab. You can subscribe to alerts using the **Email Alerts** option on the **Alerts** page.

## October 2024

### October 17, 2024

#### Improvements

* We have made performance improvements to [Software Composition](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/). Software Bills of Materials (SBOMs) generated automatically upon the creation of deployment packages now show up on the **Software Composition** page within minutes.

## September 2024

### September 5, 2024

#### New Features

* Deep links have been added to the [Software Composition](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/) page to enable unique identification and easy shareability.

### September 3, 2024

#### Improvements

* Recently, performance issues were identified in the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) generation process, which occurs during deployment package creation. Mendix has resolved these issues, ensuring that SBOM generation and the associated Software Composition capabilities are now fully compatible with the following versions of Studio Pro: 9.24.26 and above, 10.6.12 and above, 10.12.3 and above.
  
    Previously supported Studio Pro versions (9.24.22 to 9.24.25, 10.6.9 to 10.6.11, 10.10.0 to 10.12.2, and 10.13) will no longer result in SBOM generation and visibility in [Software Composition](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/). To continue using Software Composition, upgrade to a compatible Studio Pro version. Any historical data within Software Composition remains accessible regardless of the upgrade.

## July 2024

### July 16, 2024

#### Improvements

* We changed the [Database Freeable Memory alert thresholds](/developerportal/operate/monitoring-application-health/#dbase-freeable-memory) for the following cloud resource packs:
    * XS21: The critical alert threshold changed from 10% to 5% freeable memory.
    * XS20 (Legacy): The critical alert threshold changed from 10% to 5% freeable memory.
    * S (Legacy): The critical alert threshold changed from 10% to 5% freeable memory.
    * Strato (Legacy): The critical alert threshold changed from 10% to 5% freeable memory.

## May 2024

### May 14, 2024

#### New Features

* We now use Arm-based AWS Graviton 2 processors for databases of new environments on all plans in Mendix Public Cloud for best performance. Graviton 2 processors can provide significant performance improvements over previous generation instances. For database operations, this means faster processing of queries and better handling of concurrent requests.

    Existing environments will not automatically use Graviton 2 processors for their databases. Graviton 2 processors will be used for new environments and those which are cleared, downsized, or resized.

## April 2024

### April 25, 2024

#### Metrics Improvements

* Previously, the **Metrics** page displayed the **Day** period and the **Application** group of metrics when first opened. Now, the page opens to the last metrics period (**Day**, **Week**, **Month**, or **Quarter**) and group (**Application**, **Database**, or **All**) that the user selected. Note that the display depends on the user history, not the environment or app history. As before, the user can switch between the metrics periods and groups via the **Period** and **Group** drop-down menus on the **Metrics** page.
* On the **Metrics** page, we now load each graph asynchronously instead of loading the entire page at once. This improves the user experience through faster page loading time.
* We added a way to quickly scroll to the top of the **Metrics** page. Each graph now has a **Scroll to top** button ({{% icon name="arrow-circle-up" %}}) next to it, which the user can click to directly reach the top of the page.

### Deprecations

* We stopped supporting the *Application Container CPU Percentage* alert, because it triggered too often to be useful. The CPU usage data can still be seen on the **Metrics** page.

## March 2024

### March 26, 2024

#### Improvements

* All databases of environments on eligible plans in Mendix Cloud (as specified in the table below) have been migrated to gp3 storage instances. Compared to gp2, gp3 provides higher baseline storage performance. For more information, see [Database IOPS Burst Balance](/developerportal/operate/metrics/#Trends-dbmxdatabaseburstbalance) in the *Metrics* documentation.

    | Storage Size           | Storage Instance Type | Baseline Storage Performance      | Provisioned IOPS Range | Provisioned Throughput Range |
    | ---------------------- | --------------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------- |
    | Less than 20 GiB       | gp2                   | 100 IOPS (3000 Burst) / 125 MiB/s | 100 - 1197 IOPS        | 128-250 MiB/s                |
    | Between 20 and 400 GiB | gp3                   | 3000 IOPS / 125 MiB/s             | N/A                    | N/A                          |
    | 400 GiB and higher     | gp3                   | 12000 IOPS / 500 MiB/s            | 12000 - 64000 IOPS     | 500 - 4000 MiB/s             |

### March 7, 2024

#### Bug Fixes

* We corrected some rendering issues in the **Metrics** graphs: 
    * When there were some missing data points, all the existing data points used to shift to the left of the graph. Now all the data points display where they are supposed to.
    * The scale of the graphs used to change when there were missing data points. The scale is fixed now.

#### Improvements

* To make it easier to reset the two-factor authentication settings when needed, we added a link to these settings on the **Logs** and **Metrics** pages. This link appears whenever you try to access a page that you need 2FA to view.

## February 2024 

### February 19, 2024

#### Bug Fixes

* We corrected one of the labels on the [JVM object heap graph](/developerportal/operate/metrics/#Trends-appmxruntimejvmheap) on the **Metrics** page; it shows survivor space rather than native memory.

### February 8, 2024

#### Bug Fixes

* We removed a blank line on the **Logs** page. 
* On the **Metrics** page, when viewing both the application and the database metrics together, they are now separated instead of presented together. The **Logs** page now shows all the application metrics graphs first, followed by the database metrics graphs.
* The **Environments** drop-down list maintains the same sorting order as on the **Environments** page in the Developer Portal.

## January 2024 

### January 31, 2024 

#### Improvements

* We added the AWS Osaka, Seoul, and Jakarta regions as new deployment targets in Mendix Cloud Asia Pacific.
* We added support for regional fallback in Japan (Tokyo and Osaka).

### January 18, 2024

#### Bug Fixes

* We have fixed an issue with two-factor authentication (2FA) on the **Metrics** and **Logs** pages. The 2FA is now session based and not at the account level.
* Memory-related metrics graphs now display in gibibytes (GiB) and not gigabytes (GB).