---
title: "2021 Catalog Release Notes"
linktitle: "2021"
url: /releasenotes/catalog/2021/
description: "Release notes for updates to the Mendix Catalog"
weight: 60
numberless_headings: true
#This document is mapped to the landing page, update the link there if renaming or moving the doc file.
---

## December 2021

### December 30, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where a user registered an endpoint with an environment URL and the same relative path combination. As a result, an endpoint was reused from a different company.

### December 23, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the user was logged out after changing the Technical Owner of a data source.
* We fixed an issue that occurred with scrolling on a data source deep-link page.

### December 20, 2021

#### Fixes

* We updated the Log4j dependency to 2.17.0, which addresses [CVE-2021-45105](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-501673.pdf).

### December 16, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that caused uploading a contract as a ZIP file to fail when the compression ratio was too high.

#### Improvements

* We consolidated the existing **Edit Metadata**, **Discoverability**, and **Validate** drop-down menus into one menu named **Edit**.

### December 9, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that caused uploading a contract as a ZIP file to fail.
* We fixed an issue that occurred when searching for and then clicking a popular dataset.

### December 2, 2021

#### New Features

* We added a new **Settings** tab to the [Data Hub](/control-center/catalog-admin/#settings) page in Control Center with a default discoverability setting.
* We added a discoverability radio button to the data source [registration](/catalog/register/register-data/) form.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the icon size for the registered datasets.

## November 2021

### November 18, 2021

#### Improvements

* Non-company admins are now navigated to Control Center landing page instead of getting the **Access Denied** message.

### November 11, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where a Data Hub Curator could not access the fourth page or above of [Company Assets](/catalog/manage/curate/#curatelist).
* We fixed an issue with the landscape view for datasets.

## October 2021

### October 28, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the [Business Owner](/catalog/manage/search/#business-owner) name was not visible in the metadata of a data source.
* We removed the temporary administration link from the home page. The owner management page is now available from the [Curate](/catalog/manage/curate/) tab for Data Hub Curators and from the [Administration](/control-center/catalog-admin/#custom-owners) page in Control Center for Mendix Admins.

### October 14, 2021

#### Improvements

* We made several design changes, mainly on the [Catalog](/catalog/) page. We moved items like **Environment Name** and **Version** to the newly arranged right sidebar menu.
* We moved the `ContractType` field to the `ServiceVersion` level. For more information, see [How to Register OData Resources in the Catalog](/catalog/register/register-data/).
* We added an informative tooltip to the **Company** drop-down menu and a pop-up window for when the user is an external user for another company.
* We added in-app guidance to notify that you can switch the company when you have accepted a participation invitation.

#### Fixes

* We removed byte order mark (BOM) from the uploaded contract XMLs.
* A consumed entity in Studio Pro now works after upgrading from OData v3 to OData v4.

### October 7, 2021

#### Improvements

* We upgraded the Catalog search engine to OpenSearch 1.0.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that caused older Studio Pro versions to not be able to connect to the Catalog.

## September 2021

### September 30, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where searching in the [Data Hub pane](/refguide9/data-hub-pane/) in Studio Pro caused an error.

### September 23, 2021

#### Data Hub Free Edition

* The Data Hub Free edition is now available to all Mendix users! Publish your data sources in the Catalog, curate them, and then consume them in another application.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the **Curate** button appeared in the navigation for users who were not able to curate any content.
* We removed duplicate endpoints that had been created due to an issue fixed in the [September 9](#nine) release.

### September 16, 2021

#### Improvements

* API responses are now sanitized and will no longer have a chance of containing executable code.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with pagination for Applications and Environments in the API.
* We fixed styling issues.

### September 9, 2021 {#nine}

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where updating a service version created a new endpoint instead of updating the existing one.
* We fixed an issue that caused pagination URLs to be returned as *http* links rather than *https*.
* We fixed an issue where clicking **Control Center** in the top bar of the [Catalog Administration](/control-center/catalog-admin/) page navigated to the Data Hub home page. Now, it navigates to Control Center.

### September 2, 2021

#### Fixes

* We removed the `SecurityClassification` from the `Endpoints` JSON structure of the [Register API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/). The creation of endpoints as `Public` via the API is no longer allowed due to security reasons.

## August 2021

### August 26, 2021

#### Improvements

* The following API `GET` capabilities were added:
    * `GET` a specific consumed endpoint
    * `GET` all applications
    * `GET` all environments for an application
    * `GET` all consumed endpoints
* A change was made to the `POST` application API call to also allow for the `Opcenter` and `Mindsphere` application types.
* We added Catalog integration with [Control Center](/control-center/catalog-admin/). For details, see [Catalog Administration](/control-center/catalog-admin/).

### August 19, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed inconsistencies in contract and security scheme between an endpoint API spec and implementation.
* We fixed an issue where the Mendix Admin did not see external users after adding them.
* We fixed styling issues on the **Administration** page.

### August 12, 2021

#### New Features

* We added the following write capabilities: 
    * Parsing updatable, insertable, and deletable capabilities from annotations is now available in OData v4 contracts
    * Write capabilities are returned on the [Data Hub Search API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/)
    * Write capabilities are displayed on the Data Hub UI

#### Fixes

* We made improvements to Data Hub security.

### August 5, 2021

#### Fixes

* We made various security and UI fixes.

## July 2021

### July 29, 2021

#### New Feature

* The Mendix connector on the Data Hub **Home** page now also supports OData v4. 

### July 22, 2021

#### Fixes

* Administration pages no longer time out for Data Hub Admins.

### July 1, 2021

#### Fixes

* We updated the example in the [Catalog APIs](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) for `PUT` published endpoints to match the behavior.

## June 2021

### June 24, 2021

#### New Features

* New [Registration API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) endpoints now allow you to do the following:
    * `GET` all published endpoints
    * `GET`, `POST`, and `PUT` one individual published endpoint

### June 10, 2021

#### Improvements

* In the search input boxes on the [Search result](/catalog/manage/search/#search-results) listings and [Data Hub Home](/catalog/#catalog-home) page, the magnifying glass now appears on the right side.
* In the [Search result](/catalog/manage/search/#search-results) listings, the filters have been restyled.
* All cancel and discard buttons now have matching styles for improved usability.

### June 3, 2021

#### New Features

* All [Catalog APIs](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) are now available at https://datahub-spec.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/index.html. The original Catalog API is now split into 2 APIs for search and registration operations and include the following changes:
    * [Search](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) – includes GET calls for getting details of data sources
    * [Register](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) – PUT calls are added to enable users to update or register applications and environments by specifying a UUID

## May 2021

### May 27, 2021

#### New Features

* A new connector has been added to the **Catalog Home** for [registering](/catalog/register/register-data/) Siemens Opcenter data sources.

#### Improvements

* **Mindsphere** applications are now indicated with the display of the Mindsphere logo for all associated assets in the Catalog.
* In the [Search result](/catalog/manage/search/#search-results) listings, the service version number is no longer next to the data source name, it is now displayed below it.

### May 12, 2021

#### Improvements

* Datasets in the [search results list](/catalog/manage/search/#search-results) that are validated are now clearly indicated as such.
* Custom owners can be added for an application when [registering data sources](/catalog/register/register-data/) using the business application connectors from the **Catalog Home**.
* Further styling changes have been made to improve usability.

### May 6, 2021

#### New Features

The [Data Hub Transform API](https://datahub-spec.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/transform.html) is available for Mendix users deploying their apps to non-Mendix environments.  The Transform API extracts the information from the app’s `dependencies.json` file to generate the request bodies that are required when using the [Catalog API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/). For further information see [Data Hub Transform API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/registration-api/#transform-api).

## April 2021

### April 29, 2021

#### Improvements

* Improvements have been made to the styling of the [Data Hub Home](/catalog/#catalog-home).

### April 22, 2021

#### Improvements

* [Search result](/catalog/manage/search/#search-results) listings in Catalog have been improved.  Data sources and datasets that are set as [Validated](/catalog/manage/curate/#validated) will appear above assets that are not validated.

### April 1, 2021

#### Improvements

* [Registration](/catalog/register/register-data/) of data sources using the business application connectors from the **Catalog Home** is improved. For each connector, users can register data sources by selecting from a list of apps and environments already registered in the Catalog for the business application. When none are registered, the  "**Create New...**" option will be presented.
  
## March 2021

### March 18, 2021

#### Improvements

* A Mendix connector has been added to the business applications on the Data Hub Home to enable users to [manually register](/catalog/register/register-data/) Mendix OData v3 contracts.
* Data sources that are [validated](/catalog/manage/curate/#discoverability) are now clearly indicated in the search results list and for the selected asset details with a validated shield icon. The validation status of the data source is now displayed in the metadata panel.
* The [discoverability](/catalog/manage/curate/#discoverability) of a data source is displayed in the search results pane, the asset details screen and the metadata panel.

### March 11, 2021

#### Improvements

* Improvements have been made on the [discoverability](/catalog/manage/curate/#discoverability) of registered assets.
* The functionality for [registering data sources from enterprise applications](/catalog/register/register-data/) is now responsive.

### March 4, 2021

#### New Features

* Data sources from different enterprise business applications can now be registered more easily in Data Hub using the new [Registration functionality](/catalog/register/register-data/). This will enable users to use those datasets when developing apps without having to worry about connectivity to the application. This functionality replaces the previous manual registration form.

## February 2021

### February 19, 2021

#### Improvements

* Two new endpoints have been added to the [Catalog API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) for registering published and consumed endpoints separately.

## January 2021

### January 28, 2021

#### Improvements

* You can now copy the dataset URI from the [data source details](/catalog/manage/search/#search-details) in the Catalog. This makes it easier to directly select datasets to use in other business applications from the context of the data source.

### January 21, 2021

#### New Features

* Custom icons can now be used for applications and data sources. Curators and owners can [upload their own icons](/catalog/manage/curate/#application-icon) or select from the Data Hub icon library.

#### Improvements

* Improvements have been made to security.

### January 14, 2021

#### New Features

* You can download the OData service contract for a registered data source from the [asset details](/catalog/manage/search/#download-contract) in the Catalog. The set of files that make up the contract will be downloaded as a ***.zip*** file.

#### Improvements

* Further improvements have been made to security in Data Hub.
* All screens in Data Hub are now responsive.

### January 7, 2021

#### New Features

* The [asset details](/catalog/manage/search/#search-details) in the Catalog now have added functionality to copy the URI of the data source or dataset to the clipboard. This functionality means that the Catalog can be used to discover registered assets—data sources and datasets—and access the data in other enterprise applications through the metadata URI.

#### Improvements

* There have been several improvements in the Data Hub user interface.