---
title: "2022 Catalog Release Notes"
linktitle: "2022"
url: /releasenotes/catalog/2022/
description: "Release notes for updates to the Mendix Catalog in 2022."
weight: 50
numberless_headings: true
#This document is mapped to the landing page, update the link there if renaming or moving the doc file.
---

## December 2022

### December 22, 2022

#### Improvements

* You can now edit data source details directly from the [asset details](/catalog/manage/search/#service-details) page. In our [November 24th](#nov-24) release, we made it possible to edit dataset details from the same page. To learn more about data sources and datasets, see the [Selected Asset Details](/catalog/manage/search/#search-details) section of *Search in the Catalog*.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with a `PUT` environment API request, which resulted in 409 conflict instead of updating the environment. (Ticket 173609)

### December 8, 2022

#### Improvements

* When you receive and click on a notification from the Catalog about newly registered endpoints or newly assigned ownership, you will now be directed to the more user-friendly [Curate](/catalog/manage/curate/) page that shows all relevant and filtered resources. 

## November 2022

### November 24, 2022 {#nov-24}

#### Improvements

* You can now edit dataset details directly from the [asset details](/catalog/manage/search/#service-details) page.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the display of services with anonymous access in the [asset details](/catalog/manage/search/#service-details) page.

### November 17, 2022

#### Improvements

* You can now request access to a data source directly from the [asset details](/catalog/manage/search/#service-details) page. Click **Request access** in the **Authentication** section to open a draft email to the owner.

### November 10, 2022

#### Improvements

* You can now view authentication details in the [data source details](/catalog/manage/search/#service-details) page. 
* The **Technical Owner** can now only be changed in **Control Center**, not within the **Catalog**. See the [Custom Owners](/control-center/catalog-admin/#custom-owners) section of *Catalog Administration*.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where whitespaces in certain fields were causing duplicate services to be created.
* We removed the **Automatically registered** tag from sample data sources.

### November 3, 2022

#### Improvements

* Notifications for newly registered resources are now grouped, helping to de-clutter your Catalog experience.

## October 2022

### October 27, 2022

#### Improvements

* When registering a service in the registration form, you can now designate which authentication type is needed for consumers to access it. For more information, see [Selecting an Authentication Method](/catalog/register/register-data/#authentication) in *Register OData Resources in the Catalog*.
* Sample data sources are now clearly indicated with a label.

### October 20, 2022

#### Improvements

* You will now get a notification about which services automatically registered in the Catalog. Services are automatically registered when deploying a published OData service. To learn more, see [Register OData Resources in the Catalog](/catalog/register/register-data/).

### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where HTML tags were appearing on toast notifications. 

### October 13, 2022

#### Improvements

* Based on your feedback, we have renamed instances of **Delete data source** in the UI to **Remove data source**. Removing a data source will not delete it from your model.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the redeployment of an endpoint resulted in an error. The error mistakenly reported the redeployed endpoint as a duplicate rather than an update.

### October 6, 2022

#### Improvements

* Mendix Admins can now enable and disable sample data sets in the Catalog. To do so, go to the **Data Hub** page of Control Center, click the **Settings** tab, and toggle **Sample Data Sources are hidden**. 

#### Fixes

* We fixed an error that was preventing the registration a new version of an existing service on the Registration form. 

## September 2022

### September 29, 2022

#### Improvements

* We added a mini-survey on the search functionality to the search results page. Let us know how we're doing!

#### Fixes

* We have addressed potential security vulnerabilities.
* The **Authentication** page in the registration form will now show validation errors, if there are any.
* Restoring a previously deleted environment through the [Registration API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/registration-api/) is now possible and will no longer return a `409` response.
* Submitting an API request with an invalid JSON body will no longer trigger a `500` response, but a `400` Bad Request instead.

### September 22, 2022

#### Improvements

* You can now filter by content you own in the Catalog. Click **Filter** to add filters, and select the **Owned by me** checkbox in the **Ownership** section.

### September 15, 2022

#### Improvements

* We added an **Authentication** details page on the data source registration form.
* We added a filter to the [Data Hub Search API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) to view the resources owned by a user.
* We updated the Catalog UI to support pagination in the search results.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where a 404 page was shown after clicking the Catalog call-to-action in a notification email.

### September 8, 2022

#### Improvements

* You will now see an error message when the parsing of a contract fails due to the parsing service being offline. 

### September 1, 2022

#### Improvements

* External users will receive an email when they are removed from a company's Catalog. 
* Company Admins can now add multiple external users by separating email addresses with a comma and space. 

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where external users were sometimes unable to upload contracts.

## August 2022

### August 25, 2022

#### Improvements

* We improved the accuracy of the Catalog's search results.
* We added the option to the [Search API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/search-api/) to paginate through search results with an offset. This allows you to limit the number of results and specify how many to skip.
* We made several improvements to the Catalog UI.

### August 18, 2022

#### Improvements

* Mendix Admins can now assign a new [external user](/control-center/catalog-admin/#external-users) when removing the existing one from company's Catalog. To remove a user, go to **Control Center** > **Data Hub** > **External Users** and click **Remove**.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where an empty v3 contract resulted in an error. The contract will now be parsed successfully and yield no entities because it is empty.
* We fixed a bug where notifications were not sent when the notification title was more than 100 characters. The maximum number of characters in notification titles is now 100.

### August 11, 2022

### Improvements

* We made some improvements to the **Register a New Data Source** form, including improved processing of large contracts and improved responsiveness on pages with a large amount of applications and owners.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where notifications about deletion were mistakenly sent when updating a service. 
* We fixed an issue where some **Company Admins** would get an error when trying to change the default discoverability setting.
* We removed an undocumented field that was returned by the [Search API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/search-api/).
* We fixed an issue where under certain conditions, published and consumed services were not registered automatically in the Catalog.

### August 4, 2022

#### Improvements

* We upgraded the Catalog page to include **Count** and **Pagination** OData restrictions. It now features a **Capabilities** tab, a tooltip for attributes that have restrictions, and tooltips for the CRUD indicator. 

#### Fixes

* The **Capabilities** filter will now be reset when returning to the home page.

## July 2022

### July 28, 2022

#### Improvements

* Mendix Admins can now remove external participants from their company's Catalog. To do so, go to **Control Center** > **Data Hub** > **External Users** and click **Remove**.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an error that occurred when the **Business Owner** field was initially left empty, and users could not assign a new **Business Owner** in subsequent attempts.

### July 14, 2022

#### Improvements

* When a user other than the Technical or Business Owner deletes an application, environment, or data source, the Technical and/or Business Owner will receive a notification. For more information on data source ownership, see the [Changing Owners of an App](/catalog/manage/curate/#changing-owners) section of *Curate Registered Assets*.

## June 2022

### June 30, 2022

#### Improvements

* The Catalog has gotten a mini makeover! 
    * The **Catalog** and **Curate** top menu items are now up in the bar at the top of the screen, the MxDock. 
    * In the **Catalog**, you can now navigate between a **Data View**, which gives you insights about a Data Source, and a **Landscape View**, which situates the Data Source in the landscape.
* You can now filter the search results by CRUD capabilities.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an error that occurred when filtering by *Environment* in the search pane.

### June 23, 2022

#### Improvements

* Consumed data sources that have been deleted are now indicated in the [Landscape](/data-hub/data-hub-landscape/).
* Existing endpoints that are not present in a `PUT` call of the **Registration API** will be deleted. Check out the [Data Hub Registration API](https://datahub-spec.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/registration_v4.html), or read the documentation in the [Registration API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/registration-api/) section of *Catalog APIs*.
* The `app_uuid` is now present in the `409 CONFLICT` response from **Registration API** when registering an environment on a location that is already in use. 

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where *Popular* tags were not displayed on the home page for users without curation rights.

### June 16, 2022

#### Improvements

* We improved the UI performance during registration of large contracts.

### June 2, 2022

#### Improvements

* After completing the registration form, you will now be directed immediately to the new data source.
* Forum links now open with the Data Hub category pre-selected.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the `GET ServiceVersion` operation of the DataHub v2 API would not always return the `ContractType` of a `Service`. See [Catalog APIs](https://platformcore.pages.rnd.mendix.com/datahub-spec/) for a list of all available APIs.

## May 2022

### May 19, 2022

#### Improvements

* We made several improvements to the UI.

### May 12, 2022

#### Improvements

* We added a description about the curation rights that apply for `DELETE` and `PUT` operations.

### May 5, 2022

#### New Features

* When a person is removed as a Technical Owner or Business Owner of an individual application, they will receive an MxDock notification confirming that they are no longer the point of contact.

## April 2022

### April 21, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the **Delete Data Source** button incorrectly appeared on a **Dataset** detail page.

### April 14, 2022

#### New Features

* You can now delete applications through the **Registration API**. Check out the [Data Hub Registration API](https://datahub-spec.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/registration_v4.html), or read the documentation in the [Registration API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/registration-api/) section of *Catalog APIs*.
* When a person is assigned to an application as a Technical Owner or Business Owner, they will receive an MxDock notification confirming their new role.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a `NullPointerException` that occurred when the **Versions** of an endpoint was empty on the **Registration API** `GET` service call.
* We fixed an issue where the Catalog loaded in our unreleased dark mode. Dark mode is not ready yet, but we will let you know when that feature is available!

### April 7, 2022

#### Fixes

* We corrected the OData file upload message that was incorrectly indicating the maximum file size as 1 MB, when in fact the allowed maximum file size is 5 MB.

## March 2022

### March 31, 2022

#### Improvements

* We made various security improvements.

### March 24, 2022

#### New Features

* We added v4 compatibility for the **Transform API**. This is accessible via the [Data Hub Registration API](https://datahub-spec.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/registration_v4.html) under the **Endpoints** section.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a few styling issues.

### March 17, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed the **Update/Switch** button's functionality for consumed OData services.

### March 10, 2022

#### Improvements 

* We now support all OData versions and have unified all OData versions to a single **ContractType** with separate version attributes. Previously we only supported v3 and v4.
* We added v4 of the **Registration API** and **Search API** to support the unified OData type and version structure. View the [list of Catalog APIs](https://datahub-spec.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/index.html) or see our [Catalog APIs](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/catalog-apis/) documentation.

#### Fixes

* We added a loading spinner when you are waiting for a response on each of the registration form steps. 

### March 3, 2022

#### Improvements 

* We made the user experience for deleting data in the **Administration** page more consistent. Access the **Administration** page by going to the **Switch to** menu on the upper-right of the Catalog, then clicking **Control Center**.

#### Fixes

* We implemented a fix to allow users to re-register a previously deleted data source. You can do this by going to the **Register a Data Source** section on the Catalog home page.

## February 2022

### February 24, 2022

#### Improvements 

* We improved the appearance of the Catalog by adjusting colors and styling.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a typo in a validation message that appeared if registering a contract failed.

### February 17, 2022

#### Fixes

* We made various security and UI fixes.

### February 10, 2022

#### New Features

* We added an option to [delete a data source](/catalog/manage/curate/#delete-data-source), available for users with [curation](/catalog/manage/curate/) rights. To delete a data source, go to the Curation Bar for the data source and click **Edit**, then click **Delete Data Source**.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the Catalog did not display the correct status of an updatable entity.
* We made various security and UI fixes.

### February 3, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug on the **Contract Upload** page. The page incorrectly displayed a red warning border if you uploaded a document with non-blocking errors and then immediately deleted it. We have removed the red border in this scenario.

## January 2022

### January 27, 2022

#### Improvements

* We added a notification menu to the upper-right menu header.
* We added counts to the **Catalog** page so that you can now see the total numbers of **Associations**, **Attributes**, and **Datasets**. The counts appear in parentheses next to each heading.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug that was causing the file uploader to get stuck when uploading an empty file.

### January 21, 2022

#### Improvements

* The following OData contract parsing and validation improvements were added:
    * Improved detection and feedback on the OData version
    * Improved parsing and more detailed error messaging
    * Improved validation (after parsing succeeded) and more detailed error messaging

### January 14, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where an error occurred after selecting any curate menu item on the **Curation** page as a Data Hub Curator.

### January 13, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where v3 contracts uploaded as single XML files were not downloadable from the Catalog via the **Download Contract** button.

### January 6, 2022

#### Fixes 

* We updated the Log4j dependency to 2.17.1, which addresses [CVE-2021-44832](https://cert-portal.siemens.com/productcert/pdf/ssa-784507.pdf).
