---
title: "2023 Catalog Release Notes"
linktitle: "Catalog"
url: /releasenotes/catalog/2023/
description: "Release notes for updates to the Mendix Catalog"
weight: 36
numberless_headings: true
#This document is mapped to the landing page, update the link there if renaming or moving the doc file.
---

## December 2023

### December 28, 2023

#### Fixes

* We removed delete access for automatically registered data sources, a feature that was mistakenly introduced in a previous release.

### December 8, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the search feature in Studio Pro did not work as expected.

## November 2023

### November 30, 2023

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue where downloaded contracts had the wrong extension.
* Image quality on the home page has been improved.
* The sample dataset badge no longer overlaps with the icon.

### November 23, 2023

#### Improvement

* We have redirected the **Catalog** link in the Control Center to the **Curate** page instead of the Catalog home page.
* We have displayed enumeration data types for the attributes of a data set in the Catalog UI.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the data source description did not display on the tile in the Popular Data Sources section.

### November 16, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where some applications did not show up in the drop-down menu of the registration form.

### November 2, 2023

#### Improvement

* We have added a deep link that allows you navigate directly to the results of a search query.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that caused the `ContractType` of a `Service` to be empty in the response of some operations of API versions 3 and older.

## October 2023

### October 26, 2023

#### Improvement

* We have added **View More** buttons to the home page.
* We have enhanced the Search page to include a sort functionality that aligns with the revised home page.

#### Fixes

* We have disabled the ability to modify endpoints that have been automatically registered.

### October 19, 2023

#### Features

* We have added a short personalized tour to educate users (who have registered an endpoint) on key features that are available for maintaining their assets within the Catalog.
* We have introduced a notification feature to alert users when REST APIs are registered.

#### Improvement

* We have refreshed the home page to align with the Catalog's growth and accommodate for new data sources.
* We have added the ability to filter technology type (OData, OpenAPI) on the **Curate** page.

#### Fixes

* We have resolved the issue where OpenAPI endpoints were not displaying on the **Curate** page.

### October 12, 2023

#### Improvement

* We have decreased the number of clicks required to reach the discoverability setting of a data source. We have also included more information relating to the data source on the **My Assets** page in the Technology field form. 

### October 5, 2023

#### Features

* We added a mini survey about the Catalog's usefulness to the search results page so you can let us know how we are doing.

#### Improvement

* We updated the link on the search results page to give more details about what OpenAPI beta means in the Catalog.

## September 2023

### September 21, 2023

#### Features

* We added [beta](/releasenotes/release-status/) support for published REST services (OpenAPI) to the Catalog. REST services in your Mendix app are now automatically registered when you deploy to Mendix Cloud. Have a look and [let us know what you think](https://community.mendix.com/link/space/catalog).

#### Improvements

* We made several improvements to the UI of the Search Results page.

#### Fixes

* We fixed some broken links in the registration interface and in the footer of the page.
* We added the Feedback widget to a few pages where it was missing.

## August 2023

### August 10, 2023

#### Improvements

* You can now easily update your data source to a newer version from the Data Source details Page. 

## July 2023

### July 24, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where datasets sometimes disappeared from an endpoint.

### July 6, 2023

#### Improvements

* We improved the clarity and accuracy of the texts in email notifications.

## June 2023

### June 29, 2023

#### Improvements

* We improved the clarity and accuracy of even more Catalog UI texts.

### June 22, 2023

#### Improvements

* We improved the clarity and accuracy of Catalog UI texts.

### June 15, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where uploading an application icon did not show the correct dialog box.

### June 8, 2023

#### Improvements

* We added a feedback option on the right side of the screen. Let us know if you find an issue, have a suggestion for improvement, or want to share something we are doing well!

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where uploading and cropping a custom icon did not work correctly.

### June 1, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where pagination links in Search API responses were not correctly encoded.
* We fixed an issue where the page was flickering when selecting a data set in the search results.

## May 2023

### May 25, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where edits to descriptions in the Catalog UI were not saved.

### May 11, 2023

#### Improvements

* We made the authentication details on the [data source details](/catalog/manage/search/#service-details) page more user friendly.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that impacted the deployment of an OData service.

## April 2023

### April 13, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the page was flickering when selecting an object in the search results.

### April 6, 2023

#### Improvements

* We improved the clarity and accuracy of some UI texts.

## March 2023

### March 16, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue on the Catalog Admin page that displayed incorrect counts of data sources registered in the company.
* We fixed an error that occurred when no authentication is selected while registering a data source.

## February 2023

### February 27, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that was generating endpoint URLs leading to `404 not found` errors when deploying an app in Studio Pro.

### February 23, 2023

#### Improvements

* On the [Search](/catalog/manage/search/) page, there are no default search filters anymore and filters are persistent per search session.

### February 16, 2023

#### Improvements

* We added a link to the Marketplace module under authentication details that implements the specified authentication method.

### February 9, 2023

#### Improvements

* We added a user-friendly interface for `404 not found` errors in a REST deeplink API.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with cropping images when uploading an application icon.
* We fixed an issue where authentication details of a data source were not visible to users without curation rights.

### February 2, 2023

#### Improvements

* You can now select relevant Mendix Marketplace module for an [authentication](/catalog/register/register-data/#authentication) type. See the [Selecting an Authentication Method](/catalog/register/register-data/#authentication) section of *Register OData Resources in the Catalog* for more information on the authentication types.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug that was causing the creation of an application using the [Registration API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/registration-api/) to fail.

## January 2023

### January 12, 2023

#### Improvements

* You can now add [authentication](/catalog/register/register-data/#authentication) details to a data source. Click **Edit** on the data source and then click the **Authentication** tab. See the [Selecting an Authentication Method](/catalog/register/register-data/#authentication) section of *Register OData Resources in the Catalog* for more information on the authentication types.