---
title: "2024 Catalog Release Notes"
linktitle: "2024"
url: /releasenotes/catalog/2024/
description: "Release notes for updates to the Mendix Catalog"
weight: 30
numberless_headings: true
#This document is mapped to the landing page, update the link there if renaming or moving the doc file.
---

## December 2024

### December 12, 2024

#### Features

* You can now register new, and update existing, REST and Web Services through the Catalog UI. 

## November 2024

### November 28, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the Edit button was not appearing for Business Events.
* We fixed an issue where users that were promoted to Technical Owner received an incorrect notification.

#### Improvement

* We made various UI improvements to offer better insight into service registration. 

### November 14, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the **Owned by me** filter under **Ownership** in the Catalog search, which was not returning accurate results.

#### Improvement

* We made minor enhancements to UX and compatibility, including updates to widgets and filter displays.
* We upgraded the starter kit module, which includes minor UI changes on the Administration page for company admins.

## October 2024

### October 31, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where clicking on the search results would lead to an error.

#### Features

* We added support for Web Services (SOAP) through automatic registration and manual API registration. 

### October 17, 2024

#### Features

* We have introduced support for Business Events, which includes the following enhancements:
    * Validation, processing, and storage of Business Events received via CloudEvents.
    * Business Events are now included in the responses of `GET` endpoints.
    * Business Events have been integrated into key app functions, such as search results, filtering, and editing, ensuring a seamless experience across the platform.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where Published Business Event Services were being created incorrectly.

## September 2024

### September 26, 2024

#### Improvement

* We made a few UI styling adjustments.

### September 12, 2024

#### Improvement

* We updated the terminology used in the UI when describing contract elements (such as entities and actions) to be more specific.

## August 2024

### August 29, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where data sources in the search results were incorrectly indicated to not be discoverable.

### August 22, 2024

#### Features

* We have added support for OData Actions, including:
    * Updated relevant pages in the UI to reflect these action details.
    * Included actions to be added to the relevant functions within the app (such as search results, filtering, editing, etc.).

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the application filter was not displaying the results in the associated drop-down list.
* We repositioned the **Next** button on the **Registration** page to make it visible on smaller screens.

### August 01, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where notifications about newly-registered endpoints were not showing the correct number.

## July 2024

### July 18, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the owner drop-down did not show all the possible users.
* We addressed a bug where switching the active company resulted in an error on the registration form.

### July 11, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug that allowed users to add tags from other companies to their endpoints.
* We made some minor aesthetics changes to the Control Center and **Service Edit** pages to align with the overall aesthetic standards defined for the app. 

## June 2024

### June 27, 2024

#### Fixes 

* We addressed some aesthetics bugs and made some aesthetic improvements on the **Home**, **Search**, and registration pages. 

#### Improvement

* We have aligned our top-menu navigation to the rest of the platform, which has adjusted some navigation across the Catalog app.

### June 20, 2024

#### Fixes 

* We fixed a bug where the **Share** button would sometimes copy the wrong link to the clipboard.
* We improved notification messages to include more details.

### June 6, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed some minor aesthetics bugs that were present on the **Home**, **Curate**, and registration pages. 

## May 2024

### May 23, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where entity results were not appearing in the UI search results.

### May 16, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue in the Registration API where an unintended `400` response was returned if an owner that was not yet known in the Catalog was assigned to an application.

## April 2024

### April 25, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where in some rare cases when switching from the Landscape View of a data source to its Data View, information from a different data source would be shown.

### April 18, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where updating a service contract from the **Search** page results in incorrectly parsed OData services.
* We addressed an issue where clicking **Browse** from the hub URL redirects to the **Home** page instead of the **Search** page.

### April 11, 2024

#### Fixes

* We addressed a potential security vulnerability ([CVE-2023-52428](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2023-52428)).

## March 2024

### March 21, 2024

#### Improvement

* We improved the accessibility for various pages on the app.

### March 14, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where endpoints would get deleted and re-created when an application was converted from Mendix version 10.6 or below to version 10.7 or above.

## February 2024

### February 29, 2024

#### Fixes

* We addressed a potential security vulnerability.

### February 8, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the **View** button could not be clicked on the **Curate** page.
* We addressed potential security vulnerabilities.

### February 1, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that would prevent data sources from being automatically registered for applications that also use Mendix Business Events.

## January 2024

### January 25, 2024

#### Improvement

* Users can now register endpoints using OpenAPI 3.0. Previously, only OpenAPI 2.0 was supported.

### January 11, 2024

#### Improvement

* We addressed potential security vulnerabilities.

### January 4, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed a visual bug on the Curation page where two pagination bars were shown.
* We addressed potential security vulnerabilities.

#### Improvement

* Users that are not an administrator or curator can now view deeplinks to undiscoverable services.