---
title: "2018 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2018"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2018/
description: "2018 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 9
---

## December 2018

### December 12, 2018

#### Improvements

* We improved the performance of the **My Apps** page for users who are a member of a large number of teams.
* We updated the look and feel of the **My Company's Apps** page to be more in line with the **My Apps** page.
* We improved the look and feel of the emails that are being sent by the Developer Portal.

#### Fixes

* We fixed the broken deep link to the **Stories** page of your apps.

### December 1, 2018

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that sometimes caused the team member with the Technical Contact role to be hidden on the **Node Permissions** tab of the **Security** pages. (Tickets 69085, 69150, 69419, 69440, 69458, 69585, 69592, 69783, 69884,70131,70228, 70285, 76152)

## November 2018

### November 1, 2018

#### Improvements

* We made improvements in the communication between the Web Modeler and the Developer Portal.

## October 2018

### October 17, 2018

#### Fixes

* We fixed a memory leak problem that caused Developer Portal to have longer response times.
* We addressed and fixed an issue that caused some Developer Portal users to see empty dialog boxes instead of error message content. (Tickets 67626, 69363)

### October 16, 2018

#### Fixes

* It is now possible to go to a Mendix community member's new [Mendix Profile](/portal/mendix-profile/) directly from the [Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/) and **People** pages. (Ticket 69702)

### October 11, 2018

#### Improvements

* Several UX updates were made to Developer Portal pages:
    * The [My Apps](https://sprintr.home.mendix.com/link/myapps) page has been redesigned, and you can now toggle your app list views.
    * The **App** > **General** page has been redesigned.

### October 1, 2018

#### Web Modeler Improvements

The Web Modeler can now be enabled for all types of apps. You can do this on the **Settings** > **General** page of your app. If you have a licensed app, you will also need to choose your [deployment](/deployment/) environment.

#### Fixes

* For a while, the **Show activity for** filter buttons on the company **Buzz** page were broken and displayed nothing. They now work again.

## September 2018

### September 10, 2018

#### Improvements

* An application created through our APIs now has the Web Modeler enabled if the template on which the app is based is suitable for use in the Web Modeler.

#### Fixes

* We have loosened an unnecessarily strict constraint on email domains during signup. You can now sign up with email domains with single-character sub-domains. (Tickets 68210, 68386)

## June 2018

### June 26, 2018

#### Improvement

* We implemented the new Mendix header.

## May 2018

### May 23, 2018

#### Improvements

* Company Admins can now export three reports to Excel: active users, app permissions of active users, and apps. This enables managing users and their permissions at scale.

#### Fixes

* The **Revisions** tab on the **Story Details** page now shows the avatar of the committer instead of the app's avatar.

### May 8, 2018

#### Improvements

* You can now assign colors to your labels on the **Stories** page: Mendix Blue, Firetruck Red, Goldfish Orange, and Tulip Green.
* The **Story Details** page now has a new tab that shows the revisions related to the story.

#### Fixes

* On the **Feedback Details** page, the **Move to app** drop-down menu is visible again.
* Special characters like `&` are now displayed correctly in the subject of **Buzz** notification emails.
* The green call-to-action button in Buzz notification emails will now also work in Outlook for Windows. (Ticket 63452)
* If there is a lot of activity in a Buzz thread, each notification email now displays the correct thread history, instead of each email containing the same comments.
* We fixed two documentation links.

## April 2018

### April 9, 2018

#### Fixes

* It is now possible to assign an empty value for application constants that have string as the data type.
* The loading pop-up window text shown while retrieving branches is now fixed.
* The bug that prevented some users from viewing the list of running requests of their applications is now fixed.
* The bug that prevented users from deactivating their projects is now fixed.

## March 2018

### March 16, 2018

#### Improvements

* We changed the browser title from "Mendix App Platform" to **Mendix Platform** to be consistent with our messaging and documentation.
* Hybrid mobile improvements: you can now generate icons and splash screens, add custom loader and error images, and add custom HTML and CSS. We also added a new theming section for minor color tweaks.

#### Fixes

* The **Deploy** and **Operate** deep links were not available in the **Security** menu for user groups without monitoring access. This has been fixed.

## February 2018

### February 15, 2018

#### Improvements

* We introduced a beautiful new design for the notification emails you receive when someone replies to your **Buzz** posts.

#### Fixes

* We addressed an issue that prevented the **Daily Digest** email from being sent.

## January 2018

### January 25, 2018

#### Improvement

* It is now possible for you to change the Technical Contact of your applications by yourself.
