---
title: "2019 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2019"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2019/
description: "2019 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 7
---

## December 2019

### December 23, 2019

#### Improvements

* We made minor improvements to the process of creating a new app.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where you were redirected to the **Comments** page from the **Stories** page.

### December 18, 2019

#### Improvements

* We made some minor improvements to the style of the Stories beta version. This release fixes issues regarding batch actions.

### December 13, 2019

#### Improvements

* We redesigned the **Stories** page with a brand new UI and improved stability. The new UI can be accessed by clicking **Enable new UI**. This is a [beta version](/releasenotes/release-status/).

### December 5, 2019

#### Improvements

* We made some minor styling improvements on [Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/).

## November 2019

### November 21, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that prevented the **Edit in Studio Pro** functionality in the Developer Portal from opening Studio Pro.

### November 1, 2019

#### Improvements

* We introduced the ability to [favorite](/developerportal/#my-apps) apps from the **My Apps** page and to filter on favorite apps. This is helpful when you have a large number of Mendix apps.

## September 2019

### September 24, 2019

#### Improvements

* We fixed an issue that would prevent users from inviting email addresses that contain capital letters.
* We fixed an issue that occasionally triggered an error message during signup.
* We made various small performance improvements on the Developer Portal.

### September 19, 2019

#### Launchpad Removal and App User Management Update

* We removed the old launchpad page, as we have moved to a new SSO architecture. The old URL `launchpad.mendix.com` now links to your [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page.
* We moved the App User management functionality of the launchpad to the **General** app settings in the Developer Portal. For more information, see the [Managing App Users](/developerportal/general-settings/#managing-app-users) section of *How to Manage General App Settings*.

## August 2019

### August 9, 2019

#### App User Management Improvements

* We redesigned the UI for managing app users and improved the performance of loading manageable app environments and users.

## July 2019

### July 25, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where updates to decimal constants in the Developer Portal were limited to 2 decimal places. This has been increased to 8 decimal places. (Ticket 85507)

## May 2019

### May 2, 2019

#### UI Improvements

* With the beta release of Mendix Studio and Mendix Studio Pro (Mendix 8), we have updated all mentions of *Web Modeler* to *Mendix Studio* and *Desktop Modeler* to *Mendix Studio Pro* across the Developer Portal.

## April 2019

### April 8, 2019

#### Webhooks Available

* We have added the ability to create webhooks for stories and Sprints for your apps. These webhooks can be configured to send information when Sprints change and/or stories change.

### April 5, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the Developer Portal where the memory utilization was not optimized and could cause system instability. This change does not affect memory utilization by customer apps.

## March 2019

### March 15, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed an found issue where you were not able to change your password on the **Password Has Expired** page. (Tickets 80828, 80882, 80884, 80888, 80997, 81005)
* We fixed an issue with retrieving stories in the Desktop Modeler. (Tickets 80618, 80623, 80636, 80665, 80685, 80705, 80726, 80738, 80780, 80833, 80834, 80854, 80866, 80935, 81008)
* We fixed an error that occurred when importing stories from Excel in certain situations.
* We fixed an issue where you unable to invite referrals to the Mendix Platform.

### March 14, 2019

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue that sometimes caused the Technical Contact information to be hidden on the app's *General* page in the Developer Portal. (Tickets 70285, 77387, 80269, 80929)

### March 7, 2019

#### Fix

* When building a mobile application package for a new project, the default for permissions is now *disabled*. These are the set of permissions that a mobile (Phonegap) app requires and, previously, all permissions were enabled for new projects by default. This caused Push Notifications to fail if no further configuration was provided.

### March 6, 2019

#### Feedback and Support

* We removed the [Mendix Feedback](/appstore/modules/mendix-feedback/) widget from the Developer Portal. If you want to report an issue or ask a question, please submit a ticket at [Mendix Support](https://support.mendix.com).

## January 2019

### January 3, 2019

#### Fixes

* We have updated the links to the tutorials in Mendix welcome email, so that new users of our platform can be guided better. (Ticket 77158)
* We have fixed integration issues that affected some Developer Portal users while managing application members. (Ticket 77386)
