---
title: "2020 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2020"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2020/
description: "2020 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 7
---

## December 2020

### December 23, 2020

#### Improvements

* We tweaked the styling of the **Stories** > **Project History** page.
* We made moving a story to another app more intuitive.
* We removed the Model page, which contained tips on how to get started creating your apps.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where replies to Buzz notifications were not properly processed into comments on your [app Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/) page. (Ticket 111076)

### December 2, 2020

#### Improvements

* We changed the home page of the Developer Portal to [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps).

## November 2020

### November 4, 2020

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where a change of company name was not properly distributed along the platform.
* We fixed a bug where drop-down menus were cut off on the story details page.

## October 2020

### October 9, 2020

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where team members were not displayed in the [Team](/developerportal/general/team/) overview.

### October 4, 2020

#### Improvements

* We redesigned the story details page and made it available for beta usage. You can use the new design when the new story UI is enabled. Please note that it is currently not possible to add or manage labels with the new UI; this functionality will be released in the future.
* When you add a task to a commit of your app model, we now show the revision in the revision overview of the story details. Clicking the task will bring you to the story details page to which the task belongs.
* We simplified the **Company Settings** tab of the **Company** page by removing some barely used attributes.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the default avatar of a team member who committed a revision was not properly displayed in the revision overview of the story details.
* We fixed an issue where a Company Admin was no longer able to open the [Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/) of an app they for a team in which they were not a member.
* We repaired a dead link to the documentation on the [App User Management](/developerportal/general-settings/#managing-app-users) page.

## August 2020

### August 25, 2020

#### Improvements

* We reintroduced the read-only authorization for the user story overview.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where, under certain circumstances, email notifications were not sent on story comment updates.

### August 11, 2020

#### Improvements

* We made some small performance improvements.

#### Fixes

* We placed a deprecation warning in a file hosted by the Developer Portal that is used in old versions of the [Mendix Feedback](/appstore/modules/mendix-feedback/) widget. As of October 1, 2020, we will end support for Mendix Feedback widget version 5 or below. Please always keep your Feedback widget up-to-date to ensure the best experience for your users.
* We fixed an issue where you could move a user story to a different Sprint without specifying the target Sprint.

## July 2020

### July 28, 2020

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where email notifications on [feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) items were not sent under certain circumstances.

### July 13, 2020

#### Improvements

* We increased the performance on opening the buzz page.
* We changed the default avatar of a user profile from the Mendix logo to an industry standard user-icon.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where, under certain circumstances, the "View App" was disabled even though it should have been enabled.

## June 2020

### June 28, 2020

#### Improvements

* We implemented the second increment in renaming the default **End-user** team role to [Guest](/developerportal/general/app-roles/#team-roles).

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where it was possible to change the end date of a closed Sprint.

### June 15, 2020

#### Improvements

* The new Stories UI has been improved with various sections. The old Stories UI will be made unavailable soon. We encourage you to turn your tasks that are still available in the old Stories UI into new stories before the old UI is inaccessible.
* We improved performance on story-related actions such as drag-and-drop and status changes on large apps with many deleted items.
* We renamed the default **End-User** team role to [Guest](/developerportal/general/app-roles/#team-roles) to better distinguish team roles from app user roles.
* We removed the list appearance of the [My Company's Apps](/developerportal/#my-company-apps) page.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the background did not display properly on mobile browsers.
* We fixed a bug where changes to a story title or description were saved when clicking **Cancel**.

## May 2020

### May 27, 2020

#### Improvements

* When you delete a story or task on the **Stories** page, it is now irreversibly removed from the system.
* We removed the ability to revert story-related changes in an app's history.
* We removed the ability to delete several stories at once on the **Stories** page.
* We simplified story maintenance by preventing nested tasks.
* We removed the read-only permission on the stories board to bring the Developer Portal in line with industry standards.
* We made small improvements in the look and feel of the Developer Portal.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the calendar icon ({{% icon name="calendar" %}}) on date/time input fields was not displayed properly.
* We fixed a bug where the star icon ({{% icon name="star" %}}) on your [favorite apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) was not displayed properly.

### May 22, 2020

#### Improvements

* The Stories template functionality has been replaced with the **Clone** functionality in the new UI option (beta).

### May 7, 2020

#### Improvements

* We added a new story action called **Clone** to the new beta UI. For more information, see the New UI Option (beta) section of *Stories*.

## February 2020

### February 21, 2020

#### Improvements

* We fixed an issue where [favorited apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) still showed up in the favorites view on the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page after being deleted.
* We made performance improvements to the **My Apps** page.
* We fixed an issue where the description field did not expand properly when creating a new story.

### February 6, 2020

#### Improvements

* We implemented a new design for the [Create App](/developerportal/) flow.
* When creating a new app, you can now search through templates for feature demos, academy training apps, and ready-made apps.
* After selecting an app template, you can now choose a nice icon for your app.
