---
title: "2021 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2021"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2021/
description: "2021 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 5
---

## December 2021

### December 23, 2021

#### Improvements

* During the last release, we introduced an issue where the Developer Portal exposed apps without a repository to Studio Pro. We patched this issue on December 17, 2021 with a band-aid. This release sees a more permanent solution.

### December 2, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an error where it was not possible to edit a comment under a [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) item. (Tickets 134179, 136172)

## November 2021

### November 18, 2021

#### Improvements

* The arrival of [Git support](/refguide9/branch-line-manager-dialog/#byo-server-app) means that a new version of the [Platform SDK](/apidocs-mxsdk/mxsdk/) is in order. We made some changes to the Developer Portal to accommodate this new version, which is currently being tested and will be published soon.
* We introduced a new version of the Feedback API that will be used by a new generation of [Feedback widgets](/appstore/modules/mendix-feedback/) coming to the Marketplace soon.
* Until now, you were not able to delete or deactivate an app if it was still deployed to an environment, regardless of whether it was a licensed environment or a sandbox for a Free App. We changed this behavior so that the only check is on whether the environment is licensed. A consequence of this change is that the cloud icon on the app tiles on the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page is only displayed if your app is deployed to a licensed node.

### November 4, 2021

#### Improvements

* We redesigned the Stories archive page to allow you to more easily search through completed stories by ID, name, description, or Sprint.

### November 1, 2021

#### Update of \*.mendixcloud.com SSL/TLS certificate

* We have renewed the SSL/TLS certificate for `\*.mendixcloud.com`. Browsers like Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, and Internet Explorer automatically trust the new certificate. In that case, there is nothing you have to do. If you run services that connect to a `\*.mendixcloud.com` endpoint and use a static or outdated trust store, we advise you to update their certificates. The new SSL/TLS certificate can be downloaded [here](/attachments/releasenotes/developer-portal/mendixcloud.com-2021-10-29.crt.txt). This can be done from today, you do not have to wait for the old certificate to expire.
    * Current certificate details:
        * Subject: `*.mendixcloud.com`
        * Issuer: C = US, O = DigiCert Inc, OU = www.digicert.com, CN = RapidSSL TLS RSA CA G1
        * Validity: Sep 12 00:00:00 2019 GMT - Nov 10 12:00:00 2021 GMT
        * SHA-256 Fingerprint: `AE:55:1D:88:32:E1:7E:BF:AB:0D:F3:2F:57:57:C8:98:8D:87:3F:E8:F6:5F:A6:09:82:EA:37:F7:12:25:A5:D3`
        * SHA-1 Fingerprint: `5E:4D:05:9B:FE:54:3F:B6:D8:A4:D7:86:7F:3B:50:9A:EE:09:35:8F`
    * New certificate details:
        * Subject: `*.mendixcloud.com`
        * Issuer: C = GB, ST = Greater Manchester, L = Salford, O = Sectigo Limited, CN = Sectigo RSA Domain Validation Secure Server CA
        * Validity: Oct 29 00:00:00 2021 GMT - Oct 29 23:59:59 2022 GMT
        * SHA-256 Fingerprint: `BF:AE:01:9F:93:5A:D9:92:35:B5:BA:9F:E4:AE:56:99:21:17:44:51:56:17:A2:11:A1:FE:3B:42:9C:B4:B6:70` \* SHA-1 Fingerprint: `0F:3B:31:9F:86:6E:65:2D:5F:7A:EF:35:64:04:45:67:58:E4:ED:11`

## October 2021

### October 21, 2021

#### Improvements

* The app [Team](/developerportal/general/team/#managing) overview now shows deactivated users. These users can no longer sign in to the Mendix Platform or contribute to the app, and they were until now hidden from view. By showing deactivated users, app administrators have the opportunity to remove them from the app team.
* During our continuous monitoring, we noticed that creating an app during peak hours caused performance issues and sometimes resulted in timeouts. We mitigated these problems by restructuring the app creation process.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue accidentally introduced in the [October 14th](#oct-fourteen) release where you were no longer able to post comments on a [feedback item's details page](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#feedback-details). (Tickets 132892, 132959, 132983, 133075)

### October 14, 2021 {#oct-fourteen}

#### Improvements

* We noticed our **API Keys** overview was not telling the exact truth and made some changes accordingly. Because API keys are cached by our user-provisioning system, when you revoke an API key, it takes a certain amount of time before this is reflected across the platform. A new confirmation message warns you of this.
* We added a [Team Server revision history](/developerportal/repository/team-server/#revision-history) overview page for your Git-enabled apps. This allows you to have an overview of the last 40 commits made in your app. You can filter the overview per branch. When a revision is linked to a user story, the Team Server page can bring you to the story details page.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where you could not see the story details if one of the tasks had a title that was longer than 200 characters.

## September 2021

### September 23, 2021

#### Improvements

* We simplified the drag-and-drop behavior on the **Stories Overview** page (for both the new and old UI) to make it more stable.
* We added support for adding labels to stories on the **Stories Overview** page.
* It is now possible to add labels and tasks as well as assign a team member when you create a story.
* Thanks to a lot of feedback from the community, we have improved the new stories functionality to the point where we feel comfortable removing the old UI. Because of this, we will be deprecating the old UI on December 31st, 2021.
* We improved the look and feel of the story detail page, and we removed support for the old version of this page.
* We made further preparations for the support of Git-enabled apps.
* We finished a year-long project where we modernized the way the Developer Portal communicates internally. This meant we removed a long-running internal platform app, which had a great run, but now it is time to say goodbye. This app has been replaced with business events based on Kafka.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where an error was shown when a Sprint was created from the **Stories** page.

### September 2, 2021

#### Improvements

* We removed the **Burndown Chart** and the **Release Plan** from **Stories**. We are working on reintroducing solutions for project analytics and release planning in the future.
* We implemented context deep links to all main app pages on the Developer Portal so you can easily share references.
* We increased the performance of opening the [My Apps page](/developerportal/#my-apps)

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the pop-up window with pending invitations shown twice.
* We also fixed a layout bug on the invitation pop-up window that we accidentally introduced during the last release.

## August 2021

### August 19, 2021

#### Improvements

* We implemented the first batch of endpoints for mobile, in preparation for something cool coming your way.
* We improved the way the Developer Portal shares data across its several components.
* We made small improvements to the look and feel of the Developer Portal.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the app's [Team](/developerportal/general/team/) page where [Mendix Admins](/control-center/company-settings/) could not add or remove team members.

## July 2021

### July 14, 2021

#### Improvements

* We updated the look and feel of the [Documents](/developerportal/general/documents/) page.

## June 2021

### June 30, 2021

#### Improvements

* You can now assign team members to a user story.
* We moved the old version of the Stories UI. You can now access it via the **More** button on the **Stories** page.
* We removed the **Team** read-only overview page and send you straight to the [Manage Team](/developerportal/general/team/#managing) page.
* We moved the **API Keys** page to the **General Settings** page.
* We implemented a new responsive search panel.
* We will remove the **Burndown Chart** and **Release Plan** tabs from the Developer Portal on August 31, 2021.

### June 15, 2021

#### Improvements

* Git is coming: we have prepared the Developer Portal for the handling of Git-supported apps.
* We added a button to the Stories overview that allows you to create a new label.
* We made some minor changes to the look and feel across the Developer Portal.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a broken link to the documentation on the [Team Server](/developerportal/repository/team-server/) page.

### June 1, 2021

#### Improvements

* We are deprecating part of the options to create an app based on an app template. As of June 20, 2021, you can no longer create apps through the [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/) or the Developer Portal using app templates created in Desktop Modeler version 7.23.14 or below. Please update your templates to 7.23.15 or above before creating apps based on those templates.

## May 2021

### May 17, 2021

#### Improvements

* We made some minor changes to the look and feel over several pages, buttons, and UI components in line with the recent redesign of Mendix Developer Portal.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where you could not always see the avatars of other users in the same app.
* We fixed an issue where there were styling glitches visible when adding a description to a newly created story.

### May 7, 2021

#### New Features

* It is now possible to create a new app with the [workflows](/refguide9/workflows/) functionality more deeply integrated in the creation flow.

#### Fixes

* We fixed the page title of the Mendix Studio landing page.
* Page links now open in the correct tab.

## March 2021

### March 30, 2021

#### Improvements

* We have released our new [platform navigation](/developerportal/) solution with these main features:
    * The **Switch to** menu on the left side of the top bar provides access to different parts of the Mendix Platform.
    * The top bar contains sub-navigation items (for example, **Company Buzz**).
    * Clicking the **+** button on the right side of the top bar will create a new app from anywhere in the platform.
    * Under your avatar on the right side of the top bar, there is an option to switch off the new navigation, which will be available for a limited amount of time.
* We improved the search experience and added a full page of search results that can be accessed by clicking **View Search Results Page** at the bottom of the search drop-down menu or by pressing <kbd>Enter</kbd> after typing a search query
* We changed the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page and moved your favorite apps to the **Pinned** tab. This will become the default tab on this page, making it easy to quickly access the apps you care about the most.
* You asked and we listened: We added new label colors for labels in Stories. There are now 15 different colors to choose from, specifically selected with accessibility in mind.
* We made some big changes to the look and feel of our Developer Portal:
    * We reshuffled the navigation items in the [App Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/) to a more logical order, based on our research insights. Now, there are two main sections: **Collaborate** and **Deploy**.
    * We updated the look of various navigation items (**Feedback**, **Planning**, **Team Server**, **General**) to our new design.
    * We removed the grey background with white card content in all pages.
    * We replaced the breadcrumbs in the top left corner of the project navigation with the app name and icon.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where sending feedback from Studio Pro resulted in an error. (Tickets 113634, 115031)

### March 26, 2021

#### Improvements

* We made some small improvements to the **App Templates** page.

### March 15, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where it was not possible to open a version 6 Desktop Modeler from the Developer Portal.

### March 10, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where selecting an IBM or SAP template in the **Create App** flow did not direct you to the right page.

### March 4, 2021

#### Improvements

* We made some minor changes to the look and feel over several pages, most notably the [General Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/) page.
* We made some preparations for Git support.
* We improved the sharing of data across the Developer Portal so that it is more stable and secure.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the **Add image** icon was missing when posting a comment on the [Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/). (Ticket 109481)
* We fixed an issue where creating API keys appeared in the audit trail. (Ticket 116182)

## February 2021

### February 25, 2021

#### Improvements

* We optimized the **App Templates** page for a better experience. We also improved the search function on this page.
* There is now better performance for building your app after you select a template.

### February 9, 2021

#### Improvements

* We improved the speed of the **App Templates** page. After you click **Create App**, the templates appear instantly now.

### February 5, 2021

#### Improvements

* It is now possible to add or remove labels in the Story Details page.
* We added a link to your app's [environments](/developerportal/deploy/environments/) in the app tile on [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps).

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where new Mendix Admins did not get access to environment nodes. (Ticket 114913)

### February 4, 2021

#### New Features

* We released the Mendix [Control Center](/control-center/), which provides governance and control features for Mendix Admins (formerly known as Company Admins).

#### Improvements

* We moved the existing Company Admin features in the Developer Portal to Control Center.

## January 2021

### January 24, 2021

#### Improvements

* You can no longer create new polls on the company or app [Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/) page. Existing polls can still be answered.

#### Fixes

* We fixed several minor issues with the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page.

### January 15, 2021

#### Improvements

* We redesigned the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page.
* You will now see labels when you are editing a story using the new **Stories** UI. We will enable the editing of story labels and label colors in a future release.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where newly-added Company Admins did not get access to edit [user groups](/appstore/home-page/#content-groups) in the Marketplace.
