---
title: "2022 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2022"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2022/
description: "2022 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 4
---

## December 2022

### December 21, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where some users were not able to open the **Sprint Status** page.

### December 13, 2022

#### New Features

* We have released the beta version of [Product Insights](/developerportal/app-insights/mini-surveys/), which is a new way for you to proactively get feedback from your users. The functionality consists of a tool for setting up mini surveys in addition to the [Product Insights - Mini Surveys](/appstore/modules/mendix-mini-surveys/) Marketplace module, which you can add to your app to set up the exact targeting criteria for a survey.

  A survey can have a maximum of three questions that appear in your app based on the implemented criteria. You can choose between four different question types (rating scale, multiple choice, open question, and NPS question), and you can place the survey toaster in any of corner of the page. You can also preview exactly what the survey will look like.

  This feature is in beta, so we would very much appreciate your feedback. If you have any questions or suggestions for improvement, just reach out via the **Feedback** widget on the **Product Insights** page in the Developer Portal.

### December 1, 2022

#### Improvements

* We released a new version of [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/), our brand new Agile planning tool, for general availability! We made the following improvements:

    * It is possible to migrate all your data from Stories into Epics. For details, see the Data Migration section of *Epics*.
    * You can link a feedback item to a story in Epics. If you accept feedback, the story with the feedback ID and the link to the original issue will show up in your backlog.
    * If you type *#* and then start typing a story name, you can link a story in the description of another story. This is handy for showing dependencies or other relationships between stories.
    * Mentioning app team members with *@* is available in story and epic descriptions as well as in comments. If someone *@* mentions you, it triggers a notification on the Mendix Platform and/or an email, depending on your notification settings.
    * We have added emoji reactions to comments, for those times when there is no need to bother typing a message because a simple thumbs-up says it all.

  From this point on, Epics is the default project management tool for all new apps.

## November 2022

### November 30, 2022

#### New Features

* The new [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/) tool allows portfolio managers, business stakeholders, and developers to stay informed about projects and manage them in the different development stages. By providing everything you need to collaborate effectively in one place, it is now easier than ever to bring project ideas to the Mendix Platform.

  In Portfolio Management, you can do the following:

    * Control and manage digital project initiatives in one overview (via Kanban and list views)
    * Prioritize project initiatives by industry standard prioritization methods:

        * Weighted shortest jobs first (WSJF)
        * Reach, impact, confidence, and effort (RICE)

    * Sort, filter, and search project initiatives on fields such as **Tags**, **Owners**, **Departments**, and **Dates**
    * Add attachments, link Mendix apps, and assign owners to a project initiative
    * Archive and restore project initiatives
    * Invite users to dedicated portfolio boards (both internal to your organization and external)
    * Easily manage portfolio users via **Access Management**
    * Get notified when you get assigned to a project initiative or someone commented on a project initiative you own

### November 21, 2022

#### New Features

* We introduced a self-service option for Team Server SVN that allows Scrum Masters to permanently migrate eligible apps to Git. For more information on what apps are eligible for migration and on the migration process, see [Migrate to Git](/developerportal/general/migrate-to-git/). For more information on steps after the migration and process differences between Git and SVN, see [Migrating from SVN to Git: Steps After Migration and Process Differences](/refguide9/svn-git-differences/).

## October 2022

### October 20, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the story name in the revision history was not visible when you link a commit to a story in Epics or Jira (beta).

### October 6, 2022

#### Improvements

* You can now see your app history under the [Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/#history) page. Previously, this was located under the **Stories** page.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue which could occur when you try to accept feedback items with a long description.
* We fixed an issue where the feedback description was not always scrollable.

#### Deprecations

* All [Mendix Feedback](/appstore/modules/mendix-feedback/) widgets with versions lower than 8.4.0 are disabled. The feedback provided via a widget version lower than 8.4.0 is no longer sent to the [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) section of the Developer Portal, but your app will keep working as usual. Please download and replace your current Mendix Feedback widget with version 8.4.0 or higher. If you are using the [Native Mobile Resources](/appstore/modules/native-mobile-resources/) module (which also includes a version of the Mendix Feedback widget), please upgrade to version 3.5.1 or higher of that module.

## September 2022

### September 28, 2022

#### New Features

* We replaced the widget used in story description in [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/) with a new one, which fixes the bug you might have been experiencing. This replacement also comes with the following changes:
    * You can use @ to mention someone in the text of story description or epic objective. The mentioned person will get a notification once the text is saved.
    * You can copy the link to a story or an epic on the upper-right corner of the [story details](/developerportal/project-management/epics/board/#story-details) dialog box or the [epic details](/developerportal/project-management/epics/epics/#epic-details) dialog box.
    * Story and epic details now appear in a dialog box instead of a side pane.
    * The widget styling is now slightly different.
* We added a **Project Buzz** button on the [Board](/developerportal/project-management/epics/board/) page. Clicking the button brings you to the [Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/) page of the specific app in the Developer Portal.
* We added an error page in case you access Epics with no apps enabled.
* We made it possible for you to link commits from Studio Pro to stories in Epics.

#### Improvements

* We improved some empty states in the story details dialog box, epics details dialog box, archived Sprint details dialog box, and archived story details dialog box in Epics.

### September 15, 2022

#### New Features

* We added the option to watch and unwatch an app. You can find this option on the [General Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/) page for an app as well as when you click **More Options** ({{% icon name="three-dots-menu-horizontal" %}}) in an app tile on the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page. Watching an app means that you will receive feedback notifications for this app, while unwatching an app turns off the notifications.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where users were not able to delete an app, if other users were still members of this app.
* We fixed a navigation issue that would occur when users click **Go to Environments** in [Cloud Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/#cloud-settings).

## August 2022

### August 25, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed a pagination issue on the [user management overview](/developerportal/general-settings/#manage-users) in your **Access Management** settings.

### August 22, 2022

#### New Features

* We introduced a separate session duration of one hour for users logging into the platform using SSO with their companies BYOIDP, so session management can be better controlled by their IDP.

### August 11, 2022

#### New Features

* We simplified the process of [inviting other users](/developerportal/general/team/#inviting) to your projects. Now you do not need to add a personal message to the invitation anymore and the whole process can be completed on a single page.
* We added a banner about [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/), our new tool for Agile planning, on the **Stories** page. This banner provides more information about Epics and makes it easier for Scrum Masters to enable it for their projects.

## July 2022

### July 21, 2022

#### Improvements

* We removed **My Activity Overview** from the **Account Settings** page.
* We redesigned the **Pending App Invites** section and added it as a new menu item to the **Account Settings** page.
* We improved the warning messages when you leave or delete an app.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where apps on the **Company Apps** page would not be displayed properly.
* We fixed an issue that would cause an error when you edit a very long app name or description on the **General Settings** page.

### July 14, 2022

#### Improvements

* We made some small improvements to the **General Settings** page.

### July 7, 2022

#### New Features

* We released [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/), our brand new tool for Agile planning, for beta usage. Epics has many features. For example, you can:

    * Map your exact development process with fully customizable swimlanes
    * Use Scrum or Kanban – we support both!
    * Set Sprint goals and see all the basic Sprint information on the board – if you are using Scrum
    * Drag and drop stories on our brand new project board
    * Format stories in any way you want – for example, adding headers, links, and code blocks, linking specific stories, and using @ to mention people (notifications for this coming soon!)
    * Clone stories
    * Create and track the progress of epics
    * Archive single stories or whole swimlanes
    * Easily search through your completed stories and get an overview of completed Sprints in the archive

  You can try it out for any Mendix app. Your Scrum Master just needs to enable Epics on the [Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/#project-management) page. Please note it is not yet possible to migrate the data from Stories into Epics, so Mendix recommends using it for new projects or iterations first – in this way you do not have to worry about the stories in your current backlog.

## June 2022

### June 30, 2022

#### Fixes

* We introduced improvements in the performance of the Feedback API.

#### New Features

* We redesigned the [General Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/) section to make it more intuitive and user-friendly.
* We prepared the integration of Studio Pro with our new project management tool, Epics (coming soon!).

### June 16, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where users could have a duplicated project membership, resulting in two identical projects in the Developer Portal.

### June 9, 2022

#### Improvements

* From now on, the free Mendix Cloud environment of an app will be deleted whenever the app is deactivated or deleted.

## May 2022

### May 19, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where replies on [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) emails were not correctly processed into comments.

#### Improvements

* We added a download button for Feedback images, so that you can see them in full size more easily.

### May 5, 2022 {#may-fifth}

#### Fixes

* We fixed a [known issue](#april-ki) where not all app images were displayed correctly on the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page. (Ticket 148379)

## April 2022

### April 21, 2022

#### Improvements

* We removed the old Stories UI in preparation for a brand new Mendix tool for Agile project management that will eventually replace **Stories** completely – stay tuned!

#### Known Issues {#april-ki}

* Under certain circumstances, the app image is not displayed properly on the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page.
    * Fixed on [May 5, 2022](#may-fifth).

## March 2022

### March 24, 2022

#### Improvements

* As of today, we send all app invites, [Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/) notifications, and the Daily Digest from a no-reply email address. You can still reply to Buzz notifications, by the way.
* We have started sending the Daily Digest in a slightly different markup.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the submitter of a [feedback item](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) was no longer able to comment on that issue after they left the app.

### March 10, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where screenshots posted through the [Mendix Feedback](/appstore/modules/mendix-feedback/) widget could be viewed in thumbnail size only. It ain't much, but it's honest work. (Tickets 143368, 143399, 143435, 143505, 143526, 143602, 143657, 143681, 143782, 143818, 143838, 143919, 143924, 143965)

#### Improvements

* The apps displayed on the **My Apps** tab that appears when starting Studio Pro are pulled from the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page in Developer Portal. In Studio Pro versions below [9.6.0](/releasenotes/studio-pro/9.6/), the **My Apps** tab will no longer display [Git for version control](/refguide9/branch-line-manager-dialog/#byo-server-app) apps, as Git integration is not supported. In Studio Pro 9.6.0 and above, both Git-enabled and SVN-enabled apps are displayed.

## February 2022

### February 10, 2022

#### Improvements

* In our continuous effort to change the Developer Portal from a monolith into microservices, we have taken a big step in giving company data its own service. This paves the way for an updated password maintenance experience, which we will release soon.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where editing a new task while creating a story threw an error.

## January 2022

### January 18, 2022

#### Improvements

* We improved the platform navigation. The [Switch to](/global-navigation/) menu on the left side of the top bar now also provides access to your recently used apps.
