---
title: "2024 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2024"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2024/
description: "2024 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 2
---

## December 2024

### December 1, 2024

#### Improvements

* We expanded the response of our [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/) to include details on the company owning a particular app.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where revisions on the **Team Server** page would not redirect to stories associated with a commit.
* We fixed a tiny but annoying issue where the description of a new app would not accept special characters properly.

## November 2024

### November 28, 2024

#### New Features

* In Mini Surveys, now you can [add multiple survey locations](/developerportal/app-insights/mini-surveys/#survey-locations) to your app.

### November 14, 2024

#### Improvements

* We have improved [Mini Surveys](/developerportal/app-insights/mini-surveys/) as follows:
    * Mini Surveys now features an updated onboarding flow that guides you step by step through the installation process.
    * You no longer need to restart your application to switch surveys, as we have changed the module to use the survey location instead of linking it to a survey ID. 
    * We have simplified the process of creating a new survey by introducing a wizard that walks you through each step.

### November 7, 2024

#### New features

* We made it possible for you to [integrate your portfolio with Jira](/developerportal/portfolio-management/integrate-with-jira/)! This means now you can link Jira projects to your portfolio, assign Jira epics from these Jira projects to portfolio initiatives, and also track their progress. We offer this functionality as a beta version and welcome your feedback!

### November 3, 2024

#### New features

* We have added two more endpoints to [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/) to help you manage your project roles. More are on their way!

## October 2024

### October 27, 2024

#### Fixes

* We have resolved an issue that was causing duplicate email notifications to be sent after the completion of the migration to Git.
* We have resolved an issue that prevented teams from modifying their roles after migrating to the centralized company roles.

### October 17, 2024

#### New features

* If you are new to the [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/) tool, you can find a demo portfolio in the **My Portfolios** section. This demo serves as a playground for you to experiment with all the features of a portfolio. However, you will not be able to invite users or change the portfolio’s settings.

#### Improvements

* In [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/), we replaced the introduction page for new users with a more streamlined introduction banner.

## September 2024

### September 29, 2024

#### Improvements

* We centralized the management of team project roles in Control Center. This improves access governance across all Mendix projects and streamlines the setup process for app access. You can migrate your project roles to the centralized company-level project roles to benefit from this improvement. We expect you to complete the migration by January 1, 2025.
* We made it possible for you to add external team members to your app via the [Projects API](https://docs.mendix.com/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/). This mimics the functionality that is already in place through the user interface.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the commit dates for git-enabled apps on the [Team Server](https://docs.mendix.com/developerportal/repository/team-server/#revision-history) page were not correctly localized in some cases.

### September 26, 2024

#### Improvements

* In [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/), you can now assign multiple owners to an initiative.

## August 2024

### August 25, 2024

#### Improvements

* We took the first step towards a complete overhaul of the [App Buzz](/developerportal/general/overview/) page and added some basic information to the top of the page. This information gives you a quick and clear overview of the app's features, functionality, and the latest updates on the Team Server.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the commit dates for git-enabled apps on the [Team Server](/developerportal/repository/team-server/#revision-history) page were not localized.

### August 22, 2024

#### New features

* In [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/), you can now enter a value in the **Percentage Completed** field to indicate the progress made on any ongoing initiative. This field provides a clear way to track how much work has been completed. The **Percentage Completed** is visible in both the [list view](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/#list-view) and the [planning view](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/#planning-view), giving you an easy overview of your progress at a glance.

### August 1, 2024

#### New features

* In Portfolio Management, now you can drag and drop initiative cards in [Kanban view](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/#kanban-view). This allows you to drag initiatives to a different stage or change their sequence within the same stage.

#### Improvements

* In Portfolio Management, when a Portfolio Manager approves the [access request](/developerportal/portfolio-management/access-management/#access-requests) of a user, now they can assign an access role different than the one the user requested.

## July 2024

### July 31, 2024

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug that caused story points in your [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/board/) to reset to zero when you changed the status of the story in the [Stories Pane](/refguide/stories-pane/).

### July 28, 2024

#### Improvements

* We have greatly simplified the process of [creating an app](/developerportal/#create-app) from Apps, making it easier and quicker to start working on your new app.
* When you are invited to collaborate on an app by someone from outside your own company, the pending invitation will be visible on the top of the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) page.

## June 2024

### June 30, 2024

#### New features

* We have added a new endpoint to our public [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/). This enables you to automate changing existing team member's role assignment or update your pinned apps overview.

### June 27, 2024

#### New Feature

* We added the [Insights](/developerportal/portfolio-management/insights/) page in the Portfolio Management app. It is a dashboard that provides critical data and visualizations to help you gain insights into the portfolio.

### June 14, 2024

#### New Features

* We have launched the beta version of Software Composition, which provides visibility into component dependencies for every Mendix application environment. You can access the feature in [Control Center](/control-center/software-composition/) and [Apps navigation pane](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/). This feature is available for select Studio Pro versions for free and licensed applications deployed on Mendix Public Cloud and Mendix on Kubernetes.

#### Improvements

* To provide a consistent user experience, we updated UI text and stopped using the term "Developer Portal". From now on, we use the term "Mendix Portal", which includes [Apps](/developerportal/), [Control Center](/control-center/), [Community](/community-tools/), [Marketplace](/appstore/), [Catalog](/catalog/), and [Mendix Support](/support/).

### June 9, 2024

#### Improvements

* When you open the Developer Portal, you can now see these tabs: **My Apps**, **Company Apps**, and **Pending Invites**. For details, see [Developer Portal](/developerportal/).
* On the top bar of some pages in the Developer Portal, you now see **Apps** instead of **Developer Portal**. This way the presentation of our information architecture is more consistent. 

## May 2024

### May 16, 2024

#### Improvements

* In Portfolio Management, you can now see the prioritization score instead of the department name on an initiative card in the [Kanban view](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/#kanban-view).

### May 5, 2024

#### New features

* We have released a public beta version of a brand new [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/). This API will help you automate managing your projects on the platform. Some of its key features are as follows: creating and deleting projects, and managing your project's team. We will add more features in the coming months. This is an important self-service feature. All feedback is welcome!

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where app team members were unable to download [documents](/developerportal/general/documents/) uploaded to the Developer Portal.
* We fixed an issue where the app administrator was not able to change the [logo of an app](/developerportal/general-settings/#general).
* We fixed an issue where under certain circumstances the [Technical Contact](/developerportal/general/app-roles/#technical-contact) of an app was not displayed correctly.

### May 1, 2024

#### New Features

* The [Jira connector](/developerportal/project-management/jira-connector/) is now released for GA.

## April 2024

### April 25, 2024

#### Improvements

* The [Feedback API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/feedback-api-v2/) now returns the list of tags linked to a feedback.
* It is now possible to retrieve all feedback through the Feedback API for a certain email address.
* [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) is now exported in a CSV file format.

### April 4, 2024

#### New Features

* In Feedback, everyone from the app team now can manage their own feedback notifications preferences by [turning on or off the notifications](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#notifications) for all incoming feedback. You can also choose to [watch or unwatch one specific feedback item](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#notifications-individual-feedback), if you do not want to be notified for all incoming feedback.

#### Improvements

* In Feedback, we have fixed an issue where the reporter's name appeared empty on the **Contact Reporter** tab. Now if there is no reporter's name available, their email address will be shown instead.
* We released the following improvements for [Mini surveys](/developerportal/app-insights/mini-surveys/):
    * We improved your experience of copying the generated API key by implementing a new widget on the **Settings** tab of the **Survey Overview** page.
    * We improved our error messages by providing more details.

## March 2024

### March 28, 2024

#### New Features

* We made the following improvements to [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/):
    * On the **Archive** page, you can now filter and export the archived initiatives.
    * We have extended the existing filters for initiatives.
    * We added a new field **Location** to initiatives, which shows where the department of the requester is located. Now you can also see this field in the Excel file when you export initiatives.

### March 21, 2024

#### Fixes

* We have fixed a bug in [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/) that caused the cursor in text editors to jump to a different place unexpectedly. This problem happened in text editors for story descriptions, epic descriptions, and comments.

  There is a small trade-off though, since we replaced the text editor widget completely, it will not be possible to link stories using a # anymore. Your existing links will become plain text that still contain story ID and title. Copying and pasting the link to the story can be used as a workaround in the meantime.

### March 16, 2024

#### Improvements

* We added the **Contributor** access role in [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/access-management/), and we renamed the **User** access role to **Viewer**.

### March 6, 2024

#### Deprecations

* Feedback API v1 is deprecated, and it will be turned off completely on September 30, 2024. To ensure a seamless transition, Mendix strongly recommends migrating to [Feedback API v2](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/feedback-api-v2/) for all your feedback-related operations, including retrieval, creation, and updates.

## February 2024

### February 29, 2024

#### Improvements

* The Feedback API has been improved. We are happy to release our new REST Feedback API. The new API will replace the existing SOAP API, but it also comes with extra functionality like being able to retrieve the screenshot for a feedback item. Check out the [docs](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/feedback-api-v2/) for more information. The following changes have been made:
    * We now send information on the priority status of a feedback item through various calls.
    * We have optimized the GET call.
    * We have better error logs for various calls.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the sidepanel would flicker upon loading either [Mini Surveys](/developerportal/app-insights/mini-surveys/) or [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/).
* In Feedback, creating, archiving, and deleting feedback items should now show the correct pages.

### February 8, 2024

#### New Features

* In [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/), you can now assign a status to your initiatives.

### February 1, 2024

#### New Features

* In Feedback, you can now message the reporter on the **Contact Reporter** tab on the [side panel](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#feedback-details) after you open a feedback item.

#### Improvements

* Errors are now gracefully handled when a [mini survey](/developerportal/app-insights/mini-surveys/) submission is sent outside the boundaries of the survey runtime window.
* We fixed an issue where some users were unable to close feedback items.
* We fixed an issue where some users were encountering an error when navigating back to the Feedback home page.

## January 2024

### January 25, 2024

#### New Features

* Besides the already existing private and restricted portfolios, we now introduced open portfolios. An open portfolio is discoverable within your [company portfolios](/developerportal/portfolio-management/#my-porfolios-vs-company-portfolios) and accessible for all company members.

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where under certain circumstances the **Manage Users** overview of the app [access management](/developerportal/general-settings/#managing-app-users) would not show.

### January 18, 2024

#### Improvements

* We released a few improvements for [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/):
    * We converted **Inbox** and **Archive** pages into two tabs on the homepage.
    * We introduced a bulk action bar where you can link, move, archive, and delete items as well as assign item status and create stories in bulk.
    * We now save your filters on **Inbox** and **Archive** tabs until the page is refreshed.

### January 11, 2024

#### New Features

* We added the following new features in [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/):

    * You can now check initiatives in the [planning view](/developerportal/portfolio-management/initiatives-overview/#planning-view). In this view, the initiatives are shown on one timeline, with each timeline bar presenting an initiative.

    * You can now link multiple apps to an initiative. It is also possible to link epics from different apps to an initiative.

#### Improvements

* [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/), our new agile planning tool has [replaced Mendix Stories](/releasenotes/developer-portal/2023/#stories-deprecation). We have added the option to export data from the Story Archive in batches, for those of you who had a lot of stories to export.

  You will need to export everything you want to keep before 1 October, 2024. After that, old data will be deleted.
