---
title: "2025 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2025"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2025/
description: "2025 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 2
---

## December 2025

### December 14, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now filter apps based on a series of categories which are managed by Mendix Admins on the Control Center **Project Categories** page. This ensures that apps are efficiently classified and easily searchable.    
    For details on the new Control Center page, refer to [Project Categories](/control-center/project-categories/).      
    For details on the new **Apps** filter, refer to the [My Apps](/developerportal/#my-apps) section in *Apps*.

### December 4, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have changed the behavior of deleting [feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) groups. Now, when you delete a feedback group, the group itself is deleted, but the feedback included in it is not.

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue where clicking through the [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) page would sometimes result in errors.
* We have fixed an issue where you were no longer notified of newly received feedback items.
 
## October 2025

### October 30, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now group feedback for easier management. This new option is available by selecting feedback on the **Inbox** tab, then clicking **Group Items**. All resulting feedback groups within an app are listed on the new **Groups** tab of the [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/) page.

### October 26, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have implemented security and performance improvements.

## September 2025

### September 29, 2025

#### New Features

* The Mendix platform is now generally available in Korean and Japanese.    
  You can set the language from the [User Settings](/mendix-profile/user-settings/) page of your Mendix Profile. The language you choose is then applied once you sign out and sign back in.    
  Note that user-created content and system-generated content, such as app logs, is not translated.

### September 28, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have updated our [navigation pane](/developerportal/#navigation-pane) in an effort to logically group items and better align with our Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) vision. The new layout makes it even easier to find what you need at a glance. Check out the [Apps](/developerportal/) section for details.

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue that prevented you from saving a project with an empty description.

### September 25, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have updated the look of the [feedback details](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#feedback-details) side panel. 

### September 11, 2025

#### New Features

* We have added a new section to the app **Settings** page, namely [Maia Settings](/developerportal/general-settings/#maia-settings). This consolidates and replaces the **Mendix AI Assistance** sections which were previously available in the **Board**, **Planning**, and **Feedback** settings. Now, you can enable and disable Maia assistance for your app from one unified location.
* You can now enable Maia directly while creating a story.     
  When you click **Create Story with Maia** in the **Create Story** window, we check whether Maia is enabled. If it is not, you are given the option to enable it on the spot. While doing that, you can provide a **Project Description** to help Maia understand the app context and provide better suggestions.
* You can now edit the name of the **To Do** and **Done** swimlanes on the **Board** page.
* You can now edit the default status names for feedback items.

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue where the tag selector drop-down menu was not displayed. 
* We have fixed the responsiveness of the bulk actions bar on the **Planning** page.

## August 2025

### August 31, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have added two new sections to the **Overview** page to give you a clearer view of your project's progress and activities:
    * **Project Management** – Instantly see the latest user stories your team is working on and follow progress at a glance, with full support for Epics and Jira.
    * **Project Activity** – Keep track of all key project events in one place.

### August 21, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now disconnect linked stories and feedback items:

    * To unlink a story from a feedback item, click {{% icon name="unlink" %}} **unlink** on the [feedback details](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#feedback-details) page. The story is updated accordingly.
    * To unlink a feedback item from a story, click {{% icon name="unlink" %}} **unlink** in the **Feedback** section of the [story details](/developerportal/project-management/epics/board/#story-details) page. The feedback item is updated accordingly.
  
#### Improvements

* Updated user information is now properly displayed in Epics.

#### Fixes

* We have fixed a display issue that caused primary action buttons to become inaccessible, i.e. to be moved off-screen, during the story creation process. This occurred while using Maia with feedback items.

## July 2025

### July 27, 2025

#### Improvements

* The **Buzz** page is now the **Overview** page. This redesign is a first step towards having a central place where you can see the most relevant project information at a glance.

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue in the `GET` operation of the [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/). This issue prevented some user roles from being retrieved correctly.

### July 24, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now use Maia to create stories based on feedback. This helps clarify and expand on user input, turning it into actionable items.    
  For details, refer to the [Creating Stories with Maia](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#create-with-maia) section in *Feedback*.

### July 18, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now view findings associated to each component in your app. Findings represent issues identified in the components of an app. They give you a clear view of potential risks, so you can:

    * Spot issues early.
    * Reduce time spent troubleshooting by knowing exactly where to look for potential risks.
    * Make smarter decisions by understanding the severity of each finding.
    * Improve security by acting on risks as soon as they appear.

  For details on which findings are available, where you can see them, and how you can set severity levels for them, refer to [Software Composition](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/).

### July 10, 2025

#### New Features

* In [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/), you can now view the details of linked feedback.
* We have implemented lazy loading when opening the [Planning](/developerportal/project-management/epics/planning/) page.

#### Improvements

* We have improved the flow used by Maia when refining stories.

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue which caused the `PATCH` operation on the `stories` endpoint in the [Epics API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/epics-api/) to result in a `500` error in certain scenarios.

### July 8, 2025

#### New Features

* When creating a new project using the Blank App starter app, you can now choose between the [Latest, MTS, or LTS version](/releasenotes/studio-pro/lts-mts/).

## June 2025

### June 19, 2025

#### New Features

* In [Feedback](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/), you can now create a story based on multiple feedback items.
* When a story is linked to a feedback item, the story details are now displayed on the feedback item itself on the **Feedback** page.

#### Improvements

* We have improved the drag-and-drop functionality for reordering stories in the [Planning](/developerportal/project-management/epics/planning/) page. You can expect more improvements around that in the coming months.

#### Fixes

* We have fixed a bug in [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/) where, under certain circumstances, the app would freeze when creating a new user story.

### June 5, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now select the frequency with which you receive feedback notifications. To do that, select the preferred frequency from the **Feedback** page settings. For more information, refer to [Receiving Notifications](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#notifications) in *Feedback*.

## May 2025

### May 22, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now refine stories using Maia. This option is available through the [Board](/developerportal/project-management/epics/board/) and the [Planning](/developerportal/project-management/epics/planning/) pages under **Project Management**.

## April 2025

### April 24, 2025

#### Improvements 

* We have made the following improvements to the feedback management page:

    * DataGrid 2 now allows users to customize what they see on their feedback overview
    * We have improved performance for large sets of feedback
    * The date filters have been reset and the 6 month restriction has been removed
    
## March 2025

### March 30, 2025

#### New Features

* We have added a new endpoint to the [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/). The endpoint allows clients to retrieve full details of a project and its team.
* We have implemented all logic for the cleanup of unused projects and will soon start marking projects for deletion. Once a project is marked, you get a notice on the MyApps page. There you can filter the page to see which projects are marked. Once marked, you have two calendar weeks to get it unmarked. The easiest way to do this is by pinning the project. For more information, see [Deletion of Unused Projects](/developerportal/deploy/mendix-cloud-deploy/#projects-deletion).
* We renamed the **Contact Reporter** tab to **Reporter Comments**.

### March 20, 2025

#### New Features

* We introduced a new feature for Mendix AI Assistance (Maia) in Epics: **Maia Create User Story**. It helps you to easily create stories. You can access it on the [Board](/developerportal/project-management/epics/board/) or the [Planning](/developerportal/project-management/epics/planning/) page under **Project Management**.

It is turned off by default. Scrum Master can switch it on in the Project Management settings.

#### Improvements

* We have redesigned the story creation page from a popup to a full page.

### March 18, 2025

#### New Features

* Software Composition is now generally available. It helps you easily manage security risk by providing visibility and insights into the dependencies of each application across your application landscape. You can access the feature in [Control Center](/control-center/software-composition/) and [Apps navigation pane](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/).

### March 13, 2025

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue in [Mini Surveys](/developerportal/app-insights/mini-surveys/#view-export-responses) where XLSX exports included empty responses.

## February 2025

### February 6, 2025

#### New Features

* [Mendix AI Assistance Chat (Maia Chat)](/maia-mx-portal//#maia-chat), previously available in Studio Pro, is now accessible in Mendix Portal.

### January 29, 2025

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where, after updating a role, some companies could not edit the role further.

## January 2025

### January 26, 2025

#### New Features

* We have migrated all companies to use [Centralized Roles](/control-center/roles-and-permissions/#centralized-project-roles). 

### January 5, 2025

#### Deprecations

* We have removed the GET projects endpoint in our [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/) and replaced it with the new GET company projects endpoint.

#### Fixes

* We fixed a bug where the name of the revision author was not shown when the author was no longer part of the project
* We fixed a small UI bug on the Company Roles overview page where the badges were not properly displayed
* We fixed a bug in the self service migration to Company Roles
