---
title: "2026 Apps Release Notes"
linktitle: "2026"
url: /releasenotes/developer-portal/2026/
description: "2026 release notes for app management and other parts of Apps"
weight: 1
---

## May 2026

### May 22, 2026

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue in [Maia Plan](/developerportal/maia-plan/) where accessing a plan after some time had passed since its creation resulted in an error. You can safely access the plan both immediately after creation and at any later time, through the **Apps** page in Mendix Portal or through a deep link.

### May 21, 2026

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue related to the drag and drop behavior of task assignments in [Story Details](/developerportal/project-management/epics/board/#story-details).

## April 2026

### April 30, 2026

#### Improvements

* In an effort to provide a seamless app creation experience, we have updated the [Maia Plan](/developerportal/maia-plan/) project creation flow. Everything works the same, but the step layout and progression are now aligned to the general Mendix Portal experience that you might already be used to.

#### Fixes

* We are now displaying explanatory error messages in the following scenarios:

    * If any action takes too long.
    * If large requirements documents do not process correctly.

### April 2, 2026

#### New Features

* Maia Plan now recommends Marketplace components for stories that can benefit from them during implementation. For details, refer to the [Recommended Marketplace Components](/developerportal/maia-plan/#recommender) section in *Maia Plan*.

## March 2026

### March 31, 2026

#### New Features

* Maia Plan is now generally available (GA). Refer to [Maia Plan](/developerportal/maia-plan/) for details on how Maia can assist you in creating your app. 

### March 29, 2026

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue where the user password reset trails were not visible for Company Admins. (Ticket 273672)
* We have fixed an issue where the **Company Role Usage** page was not rendered correctly.
* We have implemented performance improvements.

### March 3, 2026

#### New Features

* You can now ask Maia to create a project plan for your new app. To do that, simply choose the **Plan & Build with Maia** option at the start of the app creation workflow, and provide as much information as you can about what you want from your future app. Maia will then suggest the basis for your app, such as goals, target users, requirements, epics, and stories, which you can edit to suit your needs.     
    For details, refer to [Maia Plan](/developerportal/maia-plan/).

### March 1, 2026

#### New Features

* In an ongoing initiative to redesign the [Project Overview](/developerportal/general/overview/) page, we have enhanced it with a new section, namely **App Insights**. This new section includes the latest feedback and Mini Survey responses.

## January 2026

### January 29, 2026

#### New Features

* You can now use Maia to organize unsorted feedback by grouping together related items. This option is available on the Feedback page, and can be accessed by clicking {{% icon name="sparkles" %}} (**Ask Maia**). For details, refer to the [Organizing Feedback with Maia](/developerportal/app-insights/feedback/#organizing-feedback-with-maia) section in *Feedback*.

### January 15, 2026

#### Fixes 

* We have fixed an issue where archiving or deleting a story would direct you to unexpected pages.

#### Improvements

* We have made the following changes to [Epics](/developerportal/project-management/epics/):

    * We have replaced the dropdown menus with combo boxes, allowing you to search for items by typing text.
    * We have removed toasters.

### January 11, 2026

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an issue that prevented you from seeing your apps in the right order when using default sorting on the **My Apps** and **Company Apps** pages.
* We have fixed an issue that prevented you from deleting documents.
