---
title: "Naming Convention Best Practices"
linktitle: "Naming Convention Best Practices"
url: /refguide/naming-convention-best-practices/
description: "Explains best practices to use when naming Mendix apps and their constituent parts."
no_list: false
description_list: true
---

## Introduction

This document provides basic advice on logical, scalable naming conventions for apps and other Mendix elements. While everyone can benefit from employing these conventions, they have added benefit for organizations who are making apps and components at scale.

## Modules

### Module Names

Modules should be treated like standalone replaceable services; for example, the customer module should function as a standalone customer management system as much as possible, replaceable by a different customer management system. Module names should have UpperCamelCase names that identify the responsibility of the module, for example, **CustomerManagement** or **SharePointIntegration**.

### Module Roles

The [module roles](/refguide/module-security/#module-role) should have logical names that reflect the access they should have within a module. In contrast to the user role, the module role should always be in English, for instance **Administrator** or **Employee**.

## Domain Model

### Entity Names

Most of the time, an [entity](/refguide/entities/) reflects a real-world object that people can relate to. Therefore, the entity name should also reflect that object and identify its purpose. There are sometimes app-specific exceptions that lead to creating other types of entity, but that is up to you. The name of an entity is singular since an object is a single instance of the entity. A good example is using **Customer** and not **Customers**. Furthermore, we advise avoiding abbreviations, underscores, mathematical characters or any other special characters in the names of entities. Entity names also use UpperCamelCase, for example, **HousekeepingRecord** or **LogEntry**.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Following these entity naming conventions will prevent issues with naming conflicts between modules and entities. For example, if a module named **Customer** contains an entity named **customer** (note the lower-case "c"), there will be a Java compilation error and the app will not run. Renaming the entity to **Customer** will solve the problem.
{{% /alert %}}

### Entity Attributes

The entity [attribute](/refguide/attributes/) should reflect a property of a real-world object that people can relate to and fits the purpose of that property. We advise avoiding abbreviations, underscores (except in the case described in the next paragraph), mathematical characters or any other special characters in the names. Entity attributes should use UpperCamelCase, for example, **FirstName** or **TelephoneNumber**.

Attributes that do not reflect business-related data, but are only necessary for technical reasons, should start with an underscore (`_`).

{{% alert color="info" %}}
A strong indicator for determining whether or not an attribute is business-related is whether you would still capture it if you were using a paper-only process. If you would, it is likely that the attribute will deliver business value.
{{% /alert %}}

### Associations

#### Naming Multiple Associations Between Entities

[Association](/refguide/associations/) names in the domain model are automatically generated by Mendix. The auto-generated names follow the best practice and should be used by default.

If you have multiple associations between the same entities, Mendix recommends extending the association name. Extending this name with a recognizable purpose clarifies where you should use the association. For example, you can have a relationship between **Person** and **Address**. A person can have multiple addresses but you want to specify what their postal address is and what their delivery address is. An implementation choice could be that you create two associations for that purpose and adjust the names of the associations accordingly. For example, **Person_Address_Delivery**.

#### Renaming Entities

When an association already exists between entities and you change the name on one or both of the entities, Mendix will rename the association automatically. 

With models built in lower versions of Mendix, however, you will need to manually rename the association to keep your model consistent and up-to-date.

## Folders

### Folder Names

Mendix recommends to use unique folder names that clearly identify their contents. You can use any combination of letters and symbols to identify a folder. For example, when adding a Published OData Service to your app, you could name the folder holding the service *ODataAPIs* or *OData_APIs* to reflect its function. 

Keep in mind that folders do not affect the full path of the resource. For example, when referencing the folder **ODataAPIs** in MyFirstModule, the path name would be *MyFirstModule.ODataAPIs*. 

### Folder Structure

The structure for your documents starts with a clear separation of folders. By using a good folder structure you will improve the maintainability of your application; you will be able to find required documents faster and therefore will be able to develop and fix faster. 

The optimal grouping of your documents into folders depends on the circumstances and on the functionality of your application. Mendix recommends combining the guidelines below in a way that fits your app.

#### Process-Related Sources

Every app consists of processes. Structure your documents for these processes into folders that reflect individual processes and their steps.

#### Entity-Related Sources

Every app has documents that are needed for specific entities. Think of overview pages for maintenance, validation microflows that prevent commits, or other event triggers. These types of document should be structured into one folder that is named after the entity. Optionally, sub-folders could be used to organize, for example, **events** and **pages**.

## Microflows {#microflow-naming-conventions}

Generally, [microflow](/refguide/microflows/) names should include the type of event which triggers them, the name of the main entity being processed, and the operation being performed: **{PREFIX}\_{Entity}_{Operation}**. For example, **ACT_Vendor_StartWorkflow**.

There are exceptions, such as where there is no main entity, or there is another reason to use a different name to improve understandability. The important thing is to make sure the name of the microflow clearly indicates its purpose.

To easily find and recognize the purpose of a microflow, you can use standard prefixes. Common purposes or events and their standard prefixes are listed below. If a microflow is triggered by several events, consider using more than one prefix. If a microflow does not comply to any of the patterns listed below, it should not have a prefix.

### Entity Event Microflows

For some entities you use entity [events](/refguide/events/) that are always triggered when a specific operation is executed on the entity.

For example, an attribute **TotalOrderAmount** is automatically filled based on the amount values of the order-related order lines. You can define an after-commit event that ensures that **TotalOrderAmount** is updated when a related order line is saved: *ACO_Order_CalculateTotalOrderAmount*.

The microflows related to such an event handler should have the following prefixes:

| Event Type      | Prefix            |
| --------------- | ----------------- |
| Before commit   | BCO_{Entity name} |
| After commit    | ACO_{Entity name} |
| Before create   | BCR_{Entity name} |
| After create    | ACR_{Entity name} |
| Before delete   | BDE_{Entity name} |
| After delete    | ADE_{Entity name} |
| Before rollback | BRO_{Entity name} |
| After rollback  | ARO_{Entity name} |

### Calculated Attribute Microflows

For attributes, you can choose to store the value in the database or to calculate the value based on a microflow. For the microflow that does the calculation, you should use **CAL_** as a prefix and refer to the entity and attribute which is being calculated. The calculation is triggered when you show the entity on a page or use it in a microflow. On a page, the object's calculation attribute refreshes if you navigate away from the object and back to it in any way (via pagination buttons or tabs or by re-entering the page).

| Event Type      | Prefix               |
| ----------------| -------------------- |
| Calculation     | CAL_{Entity name}_{Attribute name} |

### Page-Based Microflows

[Pages](/refguide/pages/) have a number of events that can trigger a microflow. See the following list for the examples and prefixes:

| Event Type                | Prefix          | Used In |
| ------------------------- |---------------- |-------- |
| On enter event            | OEN_{Purpose}   | Input elements   |
| On change event           | OCH_{Purpose}   | Input elements   |
| On leave event            | OLE_{Purpose}   | Input elements   |
| Data source               | DS_{Purpose}    | Data view, list view, data grid, template grid |
| Action button             | ACT_{Purpose}   | Menu item, navigation item, microflow and action button, drop-down button<br />("IVK_" was used historically) |

### Workflow Microflows

You can call a microflow from a [workflow](/refguide/workflows/). See the list of examples and prefixes in the table below:

| Event Type       | Prefix | Description                                                    |
| ---------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| User assignment  | WFA_   | Returns a list of users who can perform the workflow task.     |
| System action    | WFS_   | Accepts a workflow object and returns a workflow task result.  |
| On Created Event | WFC_   | Starts when a user task is created, accepts a workflow object. |

### Validation Microflows

Microflows that are used for [data validation](/refguide/setting-up-data-validation/) use the prefix **VAL_**.

| Event Type | Prefix |
| ---------- | ------ |
| Validation | VAL_   |

### Scheduled Event Microflows

For the microflow that you use in your [scheduled events](/refguide/scheduled-events/), use the prefix **SCE_**. The event itself should have a descriptive name since it will be shown in the cloud configuration portal. The scheduled event and the microflow should have the same name.

| Event Type      | Prefix |
| --------------- | ------ |
| Scheduled Event | SCE_   |

### App Microflows {#app-microflows}

Your [app settings](/refguide/app-settings/) provide three events that can trigger a microflow. In these cases we advise writing out the purpose as a microflow name. These microflows are defined only once per app and should preferably call sub-microflows to do the actual processing. These sub-microflows should have a prefix indicated below:

| Event Type      | Microflow Name | Sub-Microflow Prefix |
| --------------- | -------------- | -------------------- |
| After startup   | AfterStartUp   | ASU_                 |
| Before shutdown | BeforeShutDown | BSD_                 |
| Health check    | HealthCheck    | HCH_                 |

### Sub-Microflows

To clearly identify a [sub-microflow](/refguide/extracting-and-using-sub-microflows/), use the prefix **SUB_**. Exceptions can happen if there are other sub-microflow prefixes that are generally accepted too, for instance, the sub-microflow prefixes mentioned in the [App Microflows](#app-microflows) section above.

| Event Type    | Prefix                      |
| ------------- | --------------------------- |
| Sub-microflow | SUB_{Microflow description} |

### Unit Test Microflows

Microflows containing unit tests should have the prefix **TEST_** or **UT_** (case-insensitive). For more information about the Unit Testing module, see [Unit Testing](/appstore/modules/unit-testing/).

[//]: # (<!-- markdownlint-disable no-space-in-emphasis -->)

| Event Type | Prefix       |
| ---------- | ------------ |
| Unit Test  | TEST_ or UT_ |

[//]: # (<!-- markdownlint-enable no-space-in-emphasis -->)

### Integration Microflows

For integrations, you have the following types of microflow:

| Event Type                                  | Prefix |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| Consumed web service operation microflow    | CWS_   |
| Consumed REST service operation microflow   | CRS_   |
| Published web service operation microflow   | PWS_   |
| Published REST service operation microflow  | PRS_   |
| Published OData service operation microflow | POS_   |

You can also use the [Find Advanced](/refguide/find-and-find-advanced/#find-advanced) option in Studio Pro to search for microflows by service type.

## Workflows

Guidelines below can help you choose a short yet meaningful name for your workflow:

* The name matches the context entity name
* The name consists of a noun + verb (for example, *EmployeeOnboarding*)
* The name reflects what the process is about, what the goal of the process is

## Other Document Types

### Layouts and Snippets

[Layouts](/refguide/layout/) and [snippets](/refguide/snippet/) should be identified with prefixes.

| Document Type               | Prefix       |
| --------------------------- | ------------ |
| Layout for responsive (web) | Responsive_  |
| Layout for tablet (web)     | Tablet_      |
| Layout for phone (web)      | Phone_       |
| Layout for native phone     | NativePhone_ |
| Layout for popup            | Popup_       |
| Layout Atlas specific       | Atlas_       |
| Snippet                     | SNIP_        |

### Enumerations

[Enumerations](/refguide/enumerations/) should be identified with a prefix. The name of the enumeration should reflect its business context, for example, *ENUM_ShippingStatus*.

| Document Type | Prefix |
| ------------- |------- |
| Enumeration   | ENUM_  |

### Pages

Pages use a **suffix** to indicate their use.

Pages that show an [overview](/howto/front-end/create-your-first-two-overview-and-detail-pages/) of a single entity should have a suffix of **_Overview**.

Pages that are to create, edit, or view entity data, and that are not part of a process, should have the suffix **_New**, **_Edit**, **_NewEdit**, or **_View**.

Pages that are used to make a selection of one object have a suffix of **_Select** where the multi-object selection pages should have the suffix **_MultiSelect**.

Pages that are used as a tooltip page should have the suffix **_Tooltip**.

Pages that are called when a [user task](/refguide/user-task/) in a workflow is executed, have suffix **_Workflow**. There is one task page per user task. These pages always have a WorkflowUserTask data view and are specific to performing workflow tasks. 

| Page Purpose                         | Suffix       |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| List objects of a single entity type | _Overview    |
| Create an object                     | _New         |
| Update an object                     | _Edit        |
| Create or update an object         | _NewEdit     |
| View an object (read-only)           | _View        |
| Select a single object               | _Select      |
| Select multiple objects              | _MultiSelect |
| Tooltip                              | _Tooltip     |
| Interact with a user task            | _Workflow    |

### Integration Documents

Documents used to support integration should have the prefixes listed below.

| Document Type         | Prefix |
| --------------------- | ------ |
| Import mapping        | IMM_   |
| Export mapping        | EXM_   |
| XML schema definition | XSD_   |
| JSON structure        | JSON_  |
| Deeplink              | DL_    |

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
The [Deep Link](/appstore/modules/deep-link/) module is deprecated. It is replaced by [page URLs](/refguide/page-properties/#url) and [microflow URLs](/refguide/microflow/#url). For instructions on migrating to page and microflow URLs, see the [Migrating to Page and Microflow URLs](/appstore/modules/deep-link/#migrate-page-micro) section in *Deep Link*.

We will continue to actively support this module for Studio Pro 9.
{{% /alert %}}

## Home Pages

You can define the [home pages](/refguide/show-home-page/) per device and role in your navigation. The recommended page names are listed below:

| Event Type           | Device  | Page Name                |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------ |
| Default home page    | Desktop | Home_Desktop_Default     |
| Default home page    | Tablet  | Home_Tablet_Default      |
| Default home page    | Mobile  | Home_Phone_Default       |
| Role based home page | Desktop | Home_Desktop_{User role} |
| Role based home page | Tablet  | Home_Tablet_{User role}  |
| Role based home page | Mobile  | Home_Phone_{User role}   |