---
title: "2022 Community Release Notes"
linktitle: "2022"
url: /releasenotes/community-tools/2022/
description: "2022 Release notes for the community tools in the Mendix Platform."
weight: 3
numberless_headings: true
---

## August 2022

### August 22, 2022

#### New Features

* We have changed the password reset flow:
    * You can no longer update your password from your Mendix Profile.
    * All password resets and changes are now done via the [New Password Request page](https://login.mendix.com/mxid3/request-password-reset), which you can reach using the **Forgot password?** link on the login screen. This will send a password reset link to your registered email address.

### August 9, 2022

#### New Features

* We released [Notifications](/global-navigation/#notifications) for beta usage, which allows you to receive updates from Academy, Data Hub, Developer Portal, Epics, and Forum. Additionally, you can manage what kind of updates you will receive in the [Notification Settings](https://user-settings.mendix.com/link/notifications) page.

## July 2022

### July 14, 2022

#### Improvements

* We removed the profile buzz page.

## June 2022

### June 16, 2022

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where users with an invalid Twitter URL in the **Social** section of their Mendix Profile Settings could not change their password.

## April 2022

### April 7, 2022

#### Improvements

* We introduced a new layout of the [Mendix Community](/community-tools/mendix-community/) that features the following changes:
    * The main navigation has been moved to a navigation pane on the left of the screen
    * There is a dedicated for page for your bookmarks
    * Breadcrumb navigation
    * Dedicated pages for Forum content you have interacted with (asked, answered, and commented for questions, and submitted and commented for ideas)

## February 2022

### February 10, 2022

#### New Features

* We changed the button from favorite to bookmark in the [Mendix Community](/community-tools/mendix-community/). You can now more easily bookmark posts for future reference.
