---
title: "2023 Community Release Notes"
linktitle: "2023"
url: /releasenotes/community-tools/2023/
description: "2023 Release notes for the community tools in the Mendix Platform."
weight: 2
numberless_headings: true
---

## October 2023

### October 26, 2023

#### Improvements

* In Academy, we now have a new user-friendly experience for taking the [Mendix Rapid Developer Exam](https://academy.mendix.com/link/rapiddeveloper).

## June 2023

### June 29, 2023

#### New Features

* We introduced a Mendix Profile recovery email address option that allows you to prove ownership of a profile during the profile merge process. You can provide a non-business email address for this.

#### Improvements

* We changed the process for merging Mendix Profiles so that the profiles are truly merged and your user accounts stay connected to the resulting Mendix Profile. Previously, profile data was moved from one account to another.

## March 2023

### March 30, 2023

#### New Features  {#spaces-ga-release}

* We releases Spaces in the Mendix Forum for GA.

### March 23, 2023

#### Improvements

* You can now create and manage personal access tokens (PATs) in **User Settings** > **Developer Settings**. This location replaces the Warden tool that was previously used. For more information, see the [Personal Access Tokens](/portal/user-settings/#pat) section in *User Settings*.

### March 9, 2023

#### Improvements

* We simplified the way your [Notification](/portal/user-settings/#notifications) settings are stored.

## February 2023

### February 23, 2023

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the country of residence you selected during sign-up was not properly stored in your [Mendix Profile](/portal/user-settings/#profile).

### February 13, 2023 {#feb-13-23}

#### Improvements

* We moved the notification settings you set for your app management to **Account Settings** > [Notifications](/portal/user-settings/#notifications) (which you can access via the menu beneath your avatar in the top bar). This page includes a list of the apps you are watching.
* In addition, personal **API Keys** are available via **Account Settings** > [Developer Settings](/portal/user-settings/#dev-settings).
