---
title: "Windows Service 1.0"
linktitle: "1.0"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/windows-service/1.0/
description: "Windows Service Release Notes Version 1.0"
weight: 5
---

## 1.0

### 1.0.7

**Release date: March 22, 2011**

* Fixed incorrect shutdown handling.
* Force quit will be done after waiting 10 instead of 5 seconds.
* Improved handling configuration settings which are not set.
* Messages about start exceptions now will be contain more info, when started via Console and as service.
* Fixed a special case that the Java process is not stopped when an exception occur while starting (via Console and as service).
* When an error occurs, now the Java process is stopped after 1 second.
* New dialog to change administrator passwords, showed when starting from Console and there are administrators with password '1'.
* New dialog to create or update the Administrator user from menu Advanced. Now the Administrator user password setting will no longer be used.
* Removed setting for Administrator user password.
* Now a strong password will be used for communication between console/service and Mendix server. Password can be seen and changed via settings file key ServerPassword.
* A readable error message will be shown when the console cannot be connected to a running Mendix service.
* Now default service name and display name will be empty when there is already a service with that name.
* Default service and display name changed to 'Mendix'.
* When service and display name are empty, now an error message will be shown while installing the service.
* The maximum length of the service name has been set to 80, according to the Windows limit of service names.

### 1.0.6

#### 1.0.6.3

**Release date: February 16, 2011**

* Support for DTAP modes Acceptance and Production (by default).
* Now service user name and password fields are disabled when a fixed user has been chosen.
* Log file setting keys now will be trimmed (may now start or end with white spaces)
* Log file settings now won't be sent to runtime as normal runtime settings, so runtime does not show setting warnings about these settings anymore.

#### 1.0.6.2

**Release date: December 14, 2010**

* New Advanced menu-item to set the log level for the log file.
* Create / update administrator user password buttons moved to a combined menu-item in menu Advanced.
* Custom settings file now must be defined by /yaml file-location (not anymore a single file location, but preceded by /yaml).
* For all key-value pair settings, the key will be trimmed before sending to Runtime server. Keys now may be ended with one or more white spaces.
* Restart button now works.

#### 1.0.6.1

**Release date: November 29, 2010**

* added support for defining Mendix Service settings file as first command line argument.

#### 1.0.6.0

**Release date: November 23, 2010**

* In some cases, port number changes were not be saved.
* Database settings user interface improved.
* added support for setting Jetty options.
* added support for setting LogFileName, MaxLogFileSize, MaxLogFileCount.
* corrected adding userlib folder to the library path on running.
* new x64 driver for SQLite (from 1.0.65 to 1.0.66).

### 1.0.5

**Release date: August 6, 2010**

* Better Windows log message content when the service start fails.
* Version in title bar of Console.

### 1.0.4

#### 1.0.4.2

**Release date: June 7, 2010**

* When folders were selected with folder selector, the locations were not saved.

#### 1.0.4.1

**Release date: June 4, 2010**

* Don't stop loading application constants from Modeler file when this setting does not exist in the yaml settings file.
* Status bar added.
* Don't send custom settings and application constants when key is null.
* Save settings before (un)installing a service.

#### 1.0.4.0

**Release date: June 3, 2010**

* Now the existence of the given paths will be checked before start.
* More info will be shown in Windows Log in some cases of service startup fail.
* Logging database validation commands no more fails.
* ServiceTester assembly renamed to Mendix Service Console.
* Added possibility to add runtime settings other than shown in interface.
* Interface redesign.
* Now, when updating the administrator password, the real administrator user name, set in the Modeler, will be used in stead of always MxAdmin.
* Now application constants will be preloaded from Modeler file.
* Moved the Mendix Settings.yaml file one level higher, so that the Service folder can be safely replaced by new versions.
* Now the console start and stop buttons are not visible if the service is running, because starting and stopping a service is not possible at the moment.

### 1.0.3

#### 1.0.3.1

**Release date: May 26, 2010**

* Fixed the occurring error when saving the configuration and there are no application constants given.
* Added Mendix icon to Service Tester program and form.

#### 1.0.3.0

**Release date: May 18, 2010**

* User interface changes.
* Added possibility to select folders by the Windows folder browser control.
* Added possibility to easy install and uninstall the service from user interface.
* Now when starting the console and the service already runs, the console connects the service and shows the log.
* Server and Runtime path combined to Mendix path.
* Java heap size setting added.
* Added much default values for settings (for example, folders, port numbers, service settings).
* Support for application constants.
* Now user name and password may be empty (when SQL Server integrated security is used).
