---
title: "2.0"
url: /releasenotes/studio-pro/windows-service/2.0/
description: "Version 2.0 release notes for Windows Service."
weight: 4
numberless_headings: true
---

## 2.2

**Release date: June 1, 2012**

* Now the license key can be registered and viewed in the Mendix Service Console, even if the application is not started (from menu Advanced -> License information...).
* Ticket 12171: Service console shows non-Mendix event messages.
* Ticket 12490: Now a symbolic link to the correct mxclientsystem folder can be created or updated automatically when the project or server version will be updated.
    * You don't have to create a virtual mxclientsystem folder on your web server (like IIS) anymore!
* Fixed exception about checking user names.
* Implemented a more robust folder cleaner (used by the project updater), so hopefully the following exception will not occur anymore: The directory is not empty.
* Now a more user friendly error message will be shown with a help button on application start if the given (domain) user does not have rights to logon locally (native error 1385: Logon failure: the user has not been granted the requested logon type at this computer.)
* Now the service cannot be uninstalled when the service is running.
* Small user interface changes.

## 2.1

### 2.1.1

**Release date: February 13, 2012**

* Ticket 10963: Installing Mendix Windows Service doesn't support user principal name format.
* Ticket 11120: Mendix Windows Service did not restart after reboot.
* Ticket 11159: Now a user friendly message will be shown if the Mendix Service Console cannot be started because service pack 1 of .NET Framework 3.5 is not installed.
* Ticket 11160: Fixed the user picker dialog for computers without domain.
* Now the password text boxes will be unreadable by default. Added a Show password checkbox, as known in the Modeler. Please be aware that the passwords will be saved unencrypted in the settings file, as before.
* Improved error message when the following operating system error does occur: 'The requested operation requires elevation'.
* Small user interface changes.

### 2.1.0

**Release date: January 12, 2012**

* Ticket 9470: Sometimes the maximum Java heap size configuration and other numeric settings were not saved.
* Now you see a UAC popup when you start the Mendix Service Console, because the UAC administrator level will be required, to prevent an UAC request on (un)installing the service and to making it possible to start/stop services in the Console.
* Removed the Informix database type because it is not supported by Mendix anymore.
* Removed Stop button. Now Start button will be changed to Stop after starting the project.
* Now the Windows service can be started and stopped in the Console by the new Start Service/Stop Service button.
* Introduced new Management panel, above Common Configuration.
* Moved Service panel content to Management panel.
* Moved Project path and Mendix path from Common Configuration panel to Management panel.
* Added setting for Backup path.
* Added possibility to use a Mendix Deployment Archive (MDA file) to update the project. The old project files are backed up to a ZIP file in the Backup folder.
* Added possibility to use a Mendix Server distribution (*tar.gz* file) to add a Mendix server version. More versions can be installed side-by-side. Mendix chooses the right version to start the project. The existing Mendix server version from pre-2.1 Mendix Windows Service applications will be kept when using this 2.1 version, but when you installs a new Mendix server version, that version will be used if suitable for the project.
* Now the application is always started under the specific service user account to simulate the same user environment as when it is started as service. A service user account must be given before a project can be run.
* Added possibility to select a service user account via an Active Directory picker.
* Now a service user can be specified without a domain name/computer name. In that case it's a local user.
* Removed setting for user account type. A common user account must always be given. Removed possibility for system accounts like Local System.
* Now new application constants will have their default values as set in the Modeler.
* Now application constants show their descriptions in a tooltip.
* Added settings 'Uploaded files path' and 'Temporary files path' to the Common Configuration panel.
* Now the system log file m2ee_log.txt is closed immediately when the process cannot start.
* Connecting to an already running server will be done asynchronously while starting the Service Console, so the form will be shown more quickly.
* Now all configured paths will be validated when the server or the service starts.
* Windows service exceptions will now be shown in the Service Console (so you don't have to go to Administrative Tools -> Event Viewer anymore).
* Default folder of project path changed to 'Project' (was 'Application').
* Default folders will be created if they do not exist when they are needed.
* Now correct x86 or x64 libraries will be loaded from the Mendix library path, dependent on the Java Virtual Machine. At this moment needed for the SQL Server authentication library.
* Improved exception handling.
* Changed text for PostgreSQL database type option from 'PostgreSQL 8.2 and later' to 'PostgreSQL 8.3 and later'.
* Small user interface changes.

## 2.0

**Release date: July 28, 2011**

* Support for Modeler 3.0 deployment format.
* Communication with Runtime changed to support 3.0.
* Configured default buttons for administrator password change dialogs.
* Little interface improvements.
