---
title: "Defining the Scope"
url: /developerportal/maia-plan/define-scope/
description: "Describes the scope definition step of creating an app with Maia Plan."
weight: 20
---

## Introduction

Work with Maia to refine and detail the project scope, including the goal, success criteria, target users, and requirements.

1. After you click **Generate Plan**, the **Define Scope** window appears, and Maia starts populating it with the proposed project scope.     
   The app plan becomes available on the **Apps** page as soon as you click **Generate Plan** at the beginning of the workflow. You can return to the plan at any time after you leave it, and you can add team members to the app.
    
    After the **Define Scope** window is populated, you can see the following information generated by Maia:
    
    * **Goal** – A description of what you want to achieve with the app.     
        You can edit this description.
       
    * **Success Criteria** – A list of criteria to measure the success of the app. You can perform the following actions:  
        
        * Edit criteria inline.
        * Remove criteria by hovering over them, then clicking the trash can icon.    
        * Add new criteria by clicking **+Add New Success Criteria**.

    * **Target Users** – Cards for the app's target users and each user's goal. You can perform the following actions:   
        
        * Edit user details inline.
        * Remove users or their goals by hovering over them, then clicking the trash can icon.    
        * Add users by clicking **+Add New User**.    
        * Add user goals by clicking **+Add New User Goal**.

    * **Requirements** – The features that the app must have. You can perform the following actions:

        * Edit requirements inline.
        * Remove features by hovering over them, then clicking the trash can icon.    
        * Add new features by clicking **+Add New Requirement**.

    You can use the pane on the right to chat with Maia about your requirements for the new app.

2. After you review the project scope and make any necessary changes, click **Approve to Generate**.    
    You can also click **Save and Exit** to save all the changes and leave the flow.
