---
title: "2021 Control Center Release Notes"
linktitle: "2021"
url: /releasenotes/control-center/2021/
description: "2021 Release notes for Control Center"
weight: 5
numberless_headings: true
---

## October 2021

### October 1, 2021 {#oct1}

#### New Features

* We have released the company **Onboarding** functionality that enables setting up Mendix onboarding specifically for all new members of your company. You can set up an onboarding email that new users get as soon as they create their Mendix accounts and a company onboarding page that new users land on.

## September 2021

### September 6, 2021

#### New Feature

* Mendix Admins can now configure their own [single sign-on](/control-center/security/set-up-sso-byoidp/) configuration from the [Security](/control-center/security/) page. 

## August 2021

### August 26, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added a new menu item for Mendix Admins to access [Catalog Administration](/control-center/catalog-admin/) tasks. For details, see [Catalog Administration](/control-center/catalog-admin/).

### August 19, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue with the app's [Team](/developerportal/general/team/) page where [Mendix Admins](/control-center/company-settings/) could not add or remove team members.

## July 2021

### July 27, 2021

#### Improvements

* We improved the **External Members** overview on the Control Center [Dashboard](/control-center/dashboard/) so that a list of external members from a specific company appears when you click a part of the pie chart.

## June 2021

### June 1, 2021

#### Improvements

* We added a tab on the [Cloud](/control-center/cloud/) page that displays details on **Free Environments**.

## May 2021

### May 7, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where some graphs in the Control Center [Dashboard](/control-center/dashboard/) were loading indefinitely. 

## April 2021

### April 26, 2021

#### New Features

* We released the Control Center [Dashboard](/control-center/dashboard/), which provides an overview of various activities for your company on the Mendix Platform. This feature is currently in [beta](/releasenotes/release-status/), and you can provide feedback via the feedback button on the right of the page.

## March 2021

### March 9, 2021

#### Improvements

* Mendix Admins can now edit the name and description of an [App Access Group](/control-center/groups/) once it has been created.
* On the [Members](/control-center/members/) page, Mendix Admins can now deactivate Technical Contacts and the last Scrum Master in a team.

### March 4, 2021

#### Improvements

* We removed the old Company Admin pages. But you are already using the [Mendix Control Center](/control-center/) as a Mendix Admin, right?

## February 2021

### February 23, 2021

#### Improvements

* We have updated the [App Projects](/control-center/apps/) page, where you can now do the following:
    * Open the [Team](/developerportal/general/team/#managing) page from the project details page in order to manage team members and add yourself to a team (if you are a Mendix Admin)
    * Deactivate or delete an app or a team member

### February 5, 2021

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where new Mendix Admins did not get access to environment nodes. (Ticket 114913)

### February 4, 2021

#### New Features

* We released the Mendix [Control Center](/control-center/), which provides governance and control features for Mendix Admins (formerly known as Company Admins).

#### Improvements

* We moved the existing Company Admin features in the Developer Portal to Control Center.
