---
title: "2023 Control Center Release Notes"
linktitle: "2023"
url: /releasenotes/control-center/2023/
description: "2023 Release notes for Control Center"
weight: 4
numberless_headings: true
---

## December 2023

### December 14, 2023

#### New Features

We upgraded the [Apps](/control-center/apps/) page as follows:

* You can now see the information of your apps combined with the information of their environments. (Currently only licensed and free apps deployed on the Mendix Public Cloud have distinct tabs, but eventually all deployment options will be supported.)
* You can use different kinds of filters and sorting options to analyze your application landscape more closely.
* You can check the Mendix version deployed in your repository to check whether your Mendix version is up to date.
* You can now update Technical Contact on the **Apps** page.
* You can deactivate multiple free apps in one go.
* You can [export the information of apps to an Excel file](/control-center/apps-overview/#export-to-excel).

### December 7, 2023

#### Improvements

We made the following improvements to the [access management](/control-center/portfolios/#access-management) on the **Portfolios** page:

* On the [Members](/control-center/portfolios/#members) tab, the **Status** column in the list now shows whether a user is active or deactivated. Moreover, you can remove all the deactivated users from a portfolio in one go.
* All the pending invites now appear on the [Pending Invites](/control-center/portfolios/#pending-invites) tab.

## October 2023

### October 26, 2023

#### Improvements

* We added the ability to directly [remove app members](/control-center/members/) on the **Members** page.

#### Fixes 

* We fixed an issue where deactivation of some apps led to unexpected errors.
  
### October 12, 2023

#### New Features

* On the **Security** page, Mendix Admins can now [disable the digital signing](/control-center/security-settings/#disable-enable-digital-signing-emails) of the content of emails from Mendix, if it interferes with other email safety measures.

## September 2023

### September 7, 2023

#### Deprecations

* We have removed the **Onboarding** page.

## August 2023

### August 28, 2023

#### New Features

* We have released the beta version of the [Application Health Dashboard](/control-center/application-health-dashboard/), which provides an overview of the alert status of the whole application landscape in your company.

### August 17, 2023

#### Improvements

* On the [Members](/control-center/members/) page you can now sort members based on the number of apps to which they belong.
* We introduced an export feature to make it possible for you to export email domains on the [General Settings](/control-center/company-settings/#company-email-domains) tab of the [Company Settings](/control-center/company-settings/) page.

## July 2023

### July 13, 2023

#### New Features 

* We added the **Member ID** column to the **Active Members** and **Deactivated Members** lists on the [Members](/control-center/members/) page. The column also appears in the Excel file, when you export the member information from these lists.
* We introduced **Member ID** search functionality on the **Member** page.

#### Improvements

* We fixed column alignment issues and added responsive column resizing for member list columns to improve readability and visual aesthetics.

### July 3, 2023

#### Deprecations

* We removed the **Marketplace Content** section, which had been deprecated since March, 2023.

## May 2023

### May 17, 2023

#### New Features

* We have upgraded our [Portfolio Management](/developerportal/portfolio-management/) tool with new features:
    * You can now have multiple portfolios at the same time!
    * You can now create portfolios with different levels of visibility to people in your company: private or restricted.
* We have added the [Portfolios](/control-center/portfolios/) page to Control Center, which provides Mendix Admins with governance features for portfolio management in your company.

### May 16, 2023

#### New Features

* You can now [set up an SSO (BYOIDP)](/control-center/security/set-up-sso-byoidp/) to allow Mendix users to sign in to Mendix Platform services, including Studio Pro, using identity federation between the Mendix Platform and your corporate IdP.

## March 2023

### March 16, 2023

#### Improvements

* On the **Apps** page, we increased the limit of apps you can activate or deactivate to 100.

## February 2023

### February 23, 2023

#### New Features

* We have released a feature where you can add and manage a [Security Contact](/control-center/company-settings/#security-contact) for your company. A Security Contact is informed if there are critical security issues with the Mendix Platform and platform-supported Marketplace components.

  With this feature, you can do the following:

    * Add a new Security Contact to your company

    * Remove an existing Security Contact and replace it with a newer one

    * Adjust the Security Contact’s name 

  For more information on security issues, see [Security Advisories](/releasenotes/security-advisories/).
