---
title: "2025 Control Center Release Notes"
linktitle: "2025"
url: /releasenotes/control-center/2025/
description: "2025 Release notes for Control Center"
weight: 2
numberless_headings: true
---

## December 2025

### December 14, 2025

#### New Features

* The Control Center **Company** section now includes a new page, **Project Categories**. It allows admins to create and manage the categories that can be assigned to your company's apps. When apps are assigned their categories, either by the company admins or the admins of specific apps, the categories are then visible to all company members on My Apps and My Company Apps pages in the Mendix Portal, which enables better classification and searchability. Categories can also be managed using the new [Project Category API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/project-category-api/).     
    For details on the new page, refer to [Project Categories](/control-center/project-categories/).     
    For details on the corresponding app filter, refer to [Apps](/developerportal/).

## November 2025

### November 9, 2025

#### Improvements

* The [Approval Requests](/control-center/approval-requests/) page is now divided into two distinct tabs: **Active Requests** and **Resolved Requests**. This allows you to easily stay on top of all approval requests created for your company.

## September 2025

### September 29, 2025

#### New Features

* The Mendix platform is now generally available in Korean and Japanese.    
  You can set the language from the [User Settings](/portal/user-settings/) page of your Mendix Profile. The language you choose is then applied once you sign out and sign back in.    
  Note that user-created content and system-generated content, such as app logs, is not translated.

### September 4, 2025

#### Improvements

We have moved the **Mendix Admins** tab out of **Company Settings**, and into its own page. The new [Mendix Admins](/control-center/mendix-admins-page/) page is available under the **Company** menu in Control Center.

## July 2025

### July 18, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now view findings associated to each component in your app landscape. Findings represent issues identified in the components of an app. They give you a clear view of potential risks, so you can:

    * Spot issues early.
    * Reduce time spent troubleshooting by knowing exactly where to look for potential risks.
    * Make smarter decisions by understanding the severity of each finding.
    * Improve security by acting on risks as soon as they appear.

  For details on which findings are available, where you can see them, and how you can set severity levels for them, refer to [Software Composition](/control-center/software-composition/).

### July 17, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have changed the **Cloud Credits** field on the **Cloud Tokens** page to **Cloud Tokens**. This accurately represents its purpose and ensures consistency.

## June 2025

### June 12, 2025

#### New Features

* We are updating the **Entitlements** section to set the stage for powerful analytics. These are the first steps in this series of changes:

    * We have moved **Entitlements** out of the **Apps** space, and have given it a section of its own.
    * We have renamed the **Transactions** tab to **Cloud Tokens**, and have turned it into a standalone page within the **Entitlements** section.
    * We have added the **Approval Requests** page, currently in beta, which allows you to manage all approval requests created for your company. For now, this covers plan change requests sent by Technical Contacts.   
    For more information on approving or rejecting a plan change, refer to [Approval Requests](/control-center/approval-requests/).     
    For more information on requesting a plan change, refer to [Changing Your Plan in Mendix Cloud](/developerportal/deploy/change-plan/).    

## May 2025

### May 26, 2025

#### New Features

* You can now restrict people from outside your organization from being invited to projects. To do that, toggle off the **External User Invites** option on the **Security Settings** tab of the Control Center **Settings** page.    
For more information, see [Allowing External User Invites to Projects](/control-center/security-settings/#allow-external-users).

### May 22, 2025

#### Improvements

* We have replaced the [Marketplace Curation](/control-center/company-approved/) <text class="badge badge-pill badge-recommended" style="margin-left:0px">RECOMMENDED</text> label with <text class="badge badge-pill badge-company-approved" style="margin-left:0px"> {{% icon name="checkmark-shield-filled" color="green" %}}COMPANY APPROVED</text>. The new label indicates Marketplace components that meet company policies and guidelines.

## March 2025

### March 18, 2025

#### New Features

* Software Composition is now generally available. It helps you easily manage security risk by providing visibility and insights into the dependencies of each application across your application landscape. You can access the feature in [Control Center](/control-center/software-composition/) and [Apps navigation pane](/developerportal/deploy/software-composition/).

## February 2025

### February 13, 2025

#### New Features

* We have re-released the company **Onboarding** functionality in Control Center. This allows you to set up Mendix onboarding specifically for all new members of your company. You can set up an onboarding email that new users get as soon as they create their Mendix accounts and a company onboarding page that new users land on.

## January 2025

### January 30th, 2025

#### Fixes

* We fixed an issue where the export to Excel from the AppsOverview was wrongly setting the DBRam value. (Ticket 239384)
