---
title: "2026 Control Center Release Notes"
linktitle: "2026"
url: /releasenotes/control-center/2026/
description: "2026 Release notes for Control Center"
weight: 1
numberless_headings: true
---

## June 2026

### June 17, 2026

#### Fixes

* We have fixed an SBOM generation issue which sometimes caused incorrect versions. As such, we now support SBOM generation and the associated Software Composition capabilities with the following versions of Studio Pro: 

    * 11.9.1 and above
    * 11.6.6
    * 10.24.18 and above 
    * 9.24.43 and above

## May 2026

### May 12, 2026

#### New Features

* Audit logs are now centrally recorded and enhanced with additional information. You can see, export, and download them from the **Audit Logs** page in the **Security** section of Control Center. This new page, currently in beta, provides access to rich data about changes to the system made by users and admins.    
    For details, refer to [Audit Logs](/control-center/audit-logs/).
    
### May 8, 2026

#### New Features

* The [Approval Requests](/control-center/approval-requests/) page is now generally available (GA).

## April 2026

### April 21, 2026

#### Improvements

* We have moved away from [Network address translation (NAT)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation) for Private Connectivity subnet access, and are now requiring [4via6 subnet routers](https://tailscale.com/docs/features/subnet-routers/4via6-subnets) instead.
    For details, refer to [Configuring and Using Private Connectivity](/control-center/configure-private-connectivity/).

## February 2026

### February 1, 2026

#### New Features

* We have added **Certificate Management** in Control Center, enabling Mendix Admins to centrally manage SSL/TLS certificates for custom domains. From the [Certificate Management](/control-center/certificate-management/) page, Mendix Admins can configure [centralized certificates](/developerportal/deploy/certificates/centralized-certificates/) and make certificates available to Technical Contacts when [configuring custom domains](/developerportal/deploy/custom-domains/#Configuring) at the application level.

## January 2026

### January 22, 2026

#### New Features

* We have revamped the Marketplace section of Control Center, and have added a few new features and improvements meant to help you more efficiently manage and govern component approvals:

    * You can now add the company-approved (<text class="badge badge-pill badge-company-approved" style="margin-left:0px"> {{% icon name="checkmark-shield-filled" color="green" %}}COMPANY APPROVED</text>) badge to private Marketplace components as well.
    * We have updated page names in an effort to better convey their purpose: 
    
        * **Public Marketplace** is now **Company-Approved**. For details, refer to [Company-Approved](/control-center/company-approved/).
        * **Private Marketplace** is now **Submitted Requests**. For details, refer to [Submitted Requests](/control-center/submitted-requests/).

    * The **Submitted Requests** page is now split up into three tabs instead of two. The newly added tab is **Approval Settings**, and it includes the approval options that were previously displayed at the top of the **Pending Approvals** tab.

### January 5, 2026

#### New Features

* We have introduced **Private Connectivity**, a zero-trust security infrastructure which helps you manage connections between your Mendix Cloud apps and internal resources, bypassing the public internet. It allows you to create secure networks through which your apps can safely access internal databases and services hosted on-premises or in cloud environments, without exposing them publicly.     
  Refer to [Private Connectivity](/control-center/private-connectivity/) for background details and architecture, then read through [Configuring and Using Private Connectivity](/control-center/configure-private-connectivity/) to learn how to create and manage your own private networks.
